Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionLabour leader Keir Starmer with new Wakefield MP Simon Lightwood
on 23 June after the party reclaimed the West Yorkshire seat from the
Conservatives in the Wakefield byelection. Photograph: Danny Lawson/PA

Andy Burnham

# Andy Burnham says Labour must ‘seize moment’ and back proportional
representation

Writing in the Observer, mayor of Manchester says Tory byelection defeats
should open the way for consensus and radical reform

Toby Helm Political Editor

Sat 25 Jun 2022 12.00 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

Labour should back proportional representation for Westminster elections to
allow more cooperation between political parties on a programme of urgently
needed social reform, says Andy Burnham.

Writing for the _Observer_ in the aftermath of two byelection defeats for the
Tories, brought about in part by tactical voting by Labour and Liberal
Democrat supporters, the mayor of Greater Manchester says PR should be at the
heart of an entirely new approach to politics and policymaking.

Why it’s time for Labour to back proportional representation

Burnham insists he is not talking about any form of “electoral pact” involving
Labour and other parties, and that his intervention is not part of a
leadership bid against Keir Starmer. “This is nothing of the sort,” he says.
“I am doing this because I want Keir to seize the moment.”

But off the back of the byelections, he argues there is now an opportunity for
the Tories’ opponents to work together more. Doing so, they could create a
political system in which power is spread more evenly and fairly, rather than
being concentrated in what he describes as a “small Whitehall elite” as a
result of a first-past-the-post election system, which traditionally has
favoured the Tories.

Changing the voting system, a move likely to boost small parties and increase
the chances of coalitions, would foster a spirit of consensus and agreement on
other radical and necessary elements of political modernisation, such as
replacing the House of Lords with an elected second chamber and more
devolution.

“What I am proposing is cooperating now on a programme for political reform.
At a grassroots level, Labour is moving towards support for PR,” he says.

“If the party as a whole were to embrace it, it paves the way for agreement
with other parties on wider reforms: an elected senate of the nations and
regions to replace the Lords and maximum devolution of power out of
Westminster.”

Andy Burnham. Photograph: Jacob King/PA

These new structures, with the number of MPs from different parties better
reflecting the votes cast, would then pave the way for cooperation and
consensus on key challenges facing the country, the Manchester mayor suggests.

Instead, today’s Conservative government was an example of paralysis and
dysfunction, in which the governing party was seeking division with its
opponents in a desperate effort to stay in power, rather than focusing on the
urgent national issues affecting the British people.

“Just when we needed a grown-up government, we got one which is not governing
but is campaigning for its own survival by inflaming divides and starting
fights,” Burnham writes.

A spirit of cooperation was needed on issues such as housing, social care, and
public services, with the same urgency as after the second world war.

Burnham adds: “My starter for10 would be: good housing as a human right in UK
law and a major council housebuilding programme to make it real; a higher
basic minimum income for all and the end to insecure employment; social care
on NHS terms and a substantial increase in mental health spending: and the re-
nationalisation of rail and re-regulation of bus services.

“Whatever the precise policy programme, the enormity of the change needed
can’t be denied and will require consensus and political foundations to
sustain it for a generation or more.”

Labour policy is not to support PR for Westminster elections although several
motions on the issue will be put to the party’s conference in September. The
country’s largest union Unison recently backed PR for Westminster elections at
its annual conference in a move welcomed by electoral reform campaigners as a
“huge boost”.

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Andy Burnham
  * The Observer

  * Proportional representation
  * Labour
  * Electoral reform
  * Conservatives
  * news

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

