Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionPeople participate in the annual LA Pride Parade in West
Hollywood, California, in 2019. Photograph: Agustin Paullier/AFP/Getty Images

US news

# Anti-LGBTQ+ attacks by US extremist groups surge as right spews vitriol

Anti-trans politics spurred by lawmakers and far-right news outlets has
renewed fears over community’s safety

Adam Gabbatt

@adamgabbatt

Sat 18 Jun 2022 05.00 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

In Idaho, police recently found 31 members of a white supremacist group packed
into the back of a U-Haul truck, apparently on their way to an LGBTQ+ pride
event in the town of Coeur d’Alene.

Further west, a crew of Proud Boys interrupted a drag queen event in
California, intimidating parents and children and screaming transphobic and
homophobic insults. In Texas, a state plagued by anti-trans politics, a group
of rightwingers screamed abuse and threatened attendees at an adults-only drag
brunch.

Biden signs executive order to curb anti-trans laws and conversion therapy

The incidents, which led to multiple arrests, took place over just one
weekend. It was a concentration of anti-LGBTQ+ hate in America that came as a
shock to some – but not to the advocates and groups who have been warning of
an alarming rise in anti-trans and gay speech over the past year, especially
from the far right.

It’s an increase, they warn, that has been spurred by Republican politicians
and rightwing media, who have pushed anti-LGBTQ+ talking points and
legislation that has seen the rights and safety of an already marginalized
group threatened.

“While there is always a fringe, extremist element that opposes LGBTQ
equality, there has been an enormous increase in misinformation and lies about
LGBTQ people entering mainstream discourse,” said Sarah Kate Ellis, president
and CEO of Glaad, one of America’s largest LGBTQ+ rights organizations.

“When you have networks like Fox News and anti-LGBTQ outlets like Daily Wire,
Brietbart, and Daily Caller broadcasting horrific lies about LGBTQ people to
millions of people, an increase in threats and violence is the natural result.

“When you have lawmakers like Governor Ron DeSantis, Representative Marjorie
Taylor-Greene, and Governor Greg Abbott not only spreading misinformation, but
targeting LGBTQ families with unbased and harmful legislation and policies, it
empowers anti-LGBTQ extremists.”

Authorities arrest members of the white supremacist group Patriot Front near
an Idaho pride event. Photograph: Georji Brown/AP

In March DeSantis, considered a frontrunner for the Republican party’s
presidential nomination in 2024, signed a controversial “don’t say gay” bill
that prevents teachers from discussing sexual orientation or gender identity
in public schools. This month DeSantis moved to ban transition care for
transgender youth, and this week suggested he may order Florida’s child
protective services to investigate parents who take their children to drag
shows.

Taylor-Greene has spoken of drag performers as “child predators” – and has
accused Democrats of being “the party of killing babies, grooming and
transitioning children, and pro-pedophile politics”. In using the term
“groomer”, Taylor-Greene was not alone.

Groomer has become a go-to term for many conservatives – “the most recent
scare tactic of choice for the right”, as FiveThirtyEight described it. The
news outlet traced the use of the term to early March, when Republicans began
using the term in reaction to Democrats criticizing anti-LGBTQ+ education
laws.

“The right has manufactured a narrative that gay and trans people are
‘grooming’ children, fueled in large part by Libs of TikTok and magnified by
Fox News,” Media Matters for America, a media watchdog, reported in June.

Tucker Carlson, Fox News’ most-watched host, has said discussion of gender
identity in schools was tantamount to “grooming seven-year-olds”. “When did
our public schools, any schools, become what are essentially grooming centers
for gender identity radicals?” Ingraham asked in April, as she discussed
Democratic opposition to DeSantis’s “Don’t say gay” law.

When you have [media] … broadcasting horrific lies about LGBTQ people to
millions of people, an increase in threats and violence is the natural result

The situation has echoes of violence prompted by the QAnon conspiracy theory,
which states that a cabal of Democrats and celebrities run a child sex ring. A
number of believers of the theory have been arrested for committing crimes
based on the made-up theory.

The Anti-Defamation League said the claim that members of the LGBTQ+ community
are pedophiles has helped fuel extremism in recent weeks, and it has not
escaped notice that many of the threats against LGBTQ+ people have come from
white nationalist groups.

“The thing that people kind of miss in the name when we talk about white
supremacy is that it’s not just about whiteness, like white people being
better than everyone else. It’s about a certain kind of white person being
better,” said Victoria Kirby York, deputy executive director of the National
Black Justice Coalition, which advocates for Black LGBTQ+ people in the US.

“And unfortunately LGBTQ people fit into that. Whether we’re LGBTQ people of
color, like those who were targeted at the night of Pulse, or your white LGBTQ
people like those targeted at some of the events last week.

“You’re not the right kind of white person. They’re not the kind of white
person that these groups want to be holding power and want to feel safe in
this country.”

At the national level, LGBTQ+ rights could be under threat from the expected
reversal of Roe v Wade, the supreme court decision that legalized abortion,
given the right to same-sex marriage relied on a similar legal basis to that
case, and from a wave of anti-LGBTQ+ state bills – more than 320 of which have
been introduced so far this year, according to the Human Rights Campaign.

But despite the noise generated by the right wing, polls suggest they are at
odds with the general population.

In March, a survey by the Public Religion Research Institute found that 76% of
Americans – including 62% of Republicans – favor laws that would protect
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans from discrimination in jobs,
housing and public accommodation.

On Wednesday Joe Biden appeared to recognize this, citing “hateful attacks” as
he signed an executive order aimed at curbing discrimination against
transgender youth and drying up federal funding for the discredited practice
of “conversion therapy”.

The order falls short, however, of the Equality Act, which would place a
federal ban on discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity
in public spaces and federal programs. The legislation passed the House in
2021, but has stalled in the Senate.

Kirby York said proper prosecution of people who attack LGBTQ people or
communities, or use hate speech, is important.

“But more than just the laws, we have to have more societal conversations,”
she said.

“We have to have some of these hard conversations at the dinner table, at
Thanksgiving.

“I’ve seen way too many people just saying I give up, but you are probably the
best-equipped person to talk to your family about a different way of seeing
people, especially if you know people who look in love and are different than
your family. So it really takes all of it.”

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * US news

  * LGBT rights
  * Transgender
  * The far right
  * features

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

