Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionA girl pays her respects at a memorial for the 19 children and two
adults shot dead in Uvalde, Texas. Photograph: Marco Bello/Reuters

# The fixation with guns is an American nightmare

Letters

The scourge of gun violence goes beyond the mass shootings that make the
headlines, writes **Peter Squires**. Plus letters from **Neil A Wynn** and
**Tony Waterston**

Thu 2 Jun 2022 12.55 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

I have been researching gun violence and its prevention for more than 25
years, and much as I accept Jonathan Freedland’s analysis of the deep
structures, party politics and ideological delusions that sustain this gun
culture (America, how long will you sacrifice your children on the altar of
gun worship?, 27 May), I often feel that there’s a mismatch between problems
and responses.

After all, America has three gun violence problems. In order of victim
magnitude these are: gun suicides, some 60% of all shooting deaths, mainly
white middle-aged men; gun homicides, as many as 18,000 victims a year,
disproportionately young African-American men; and mass shootings, producing
around 1% of annual gun homicide victims.

It is undoubtedly the mass shootings that punctuate, focus and drive the “gun
debate”, but strategies to tackle just one of these problems are unlikely to
have much purchase on the others.

A sizeable majority of mass shootings are carried out with legally owned
weapons, increasingly assault rifles, yet the daily carnage on the streets of
inner cities, where the overwhelming majority of America’s young people are
shot and killed, is dominated by illegal handguns. The fight will inevitably
be a long and hard one, and gun-control measures are certainly a major part –
though not the whole – of that. But we do need well-evidenced, credible
policies that address the actual issues. There is no panacea here.  
 **Peter Squires**  
 _Professor emeritus of criminology and public policy, University of Brighton_

• I found Jonathan Freedland’s excellent article saddening, not just because
of the horror of the latest mass shooting but also the wider demise of
America’s “promise of possibility” that the awful events in Uvalde and
elsewhere reflect.

Like many people of my generation, I was attracted in my teens to the US by
the promise and hope of its history, politics, music, film and literature – a
promise that existed even amid the turmoil of the civil rights and anti-war
protests of the 1960s and 1970s. We taught American history and American
studies and focused on the American dream – the belief that a society could,
in Freedland’s words, “form anew, free of the past”, a dream of endless
possibility. But what hope now for America in the post-Trumpian era with a
militant rightwing and seemingly all-powerful gun lobby? Maybe Malcolm X was
right all along: “I don’t see any American dream; I see an American
nightmare.”  
 **Neil A Wynn**  
 _Emeritus professor of 20th-century American history, University of
Gloucestershire_

• As a member of Extinction Rebellion, I think the answer to Jonathan
Freedland’s appeal must be direct action by the victims, specifically parents
and children. As with climate change, marching and writing to politicians
about gun control has had no effect, despite widespread support by the public.

The politicians responsible for non-action (leading Republicans such as Ted
Cruz and Mitch McConnell) must be targeted with blockades of their homes and
offices by parents and children with graphic banners; the National Rifle
Association should be sued for millions of dollars for the deaths that its
lobbying has led to. No doubt this is already being done or considered, and it
is arrogant for non-Americans to give their advice – but I’m not making any
apologies.  
 **Tony Waterston**  
 _Newcastle upon Tyne_

 **• _Have an opinion on anything you’ve read in the Guardian today? Please_**
** _email_** ** _us your letter and it will be considered for publication._**

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * US gun control

  * US politics
  * letters

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

