Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 7, 20225:47 PM UTCLast Updated ago

  * United Kingdom

# UK campaigners urge tougher ethics rules after Johnson outcry

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

2 minute read

![Cabinet Meeting in Downing Street, London](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/GOVQJ7YHKRJV5M7E6OUMV3I4HY.jpg)

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson addresses his cabinet ahead of the weekly
cabinet meeting in Downing Street, London, Britain June 7, 2022. Leon
Neal/Pool via REUTERS

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

LONDON, June 7 (Reuters) - An anti-corruption group called on Britain on
Tuesday to toughen its ethics rules for politicians after Prime Minister Boris
Johnson's government watered down a code of conduct in the midst of an outcry
over rule-breaking by Johnson himself.

A day after 41% of lawmakers from the ruling Conservative Party tried to oust
Johnson as their leader, Transparency International UK called for reforms to
restore trust in politics and ensure its oversight.

"Recent events have demonstrated how long-standing conventions around ethical
standards in public life are no longer observed as a matter of course, and
provide a poor check against misconduct by those in power," Daniel Bruce,
Chief Executive of Transparency International UK, said.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

"This slipping of standards and the decisions arising from it risks fuelling
inequality, holding back our economy, and undermining effective responses to
crises here at home."

The group called for the Ministerial Code, which sets out standards of conduct
for senior politicians, to be made statutory to prevent it from being
discarded or disregarded by the prime minister of the day, among other
changes.

Last month, the government announced alterations to its ethics rules which
meant ministers who breached the code would no longer be expected to resign.

On Monday, Conservative lawmaker John Penrose quit as the government's anti-
corruption champion, saying it was clear Johnson broke the code.

Johnson told parliament last year he had not attended parties when they were
barred during COVID lockdowns.

Johnson was subsequently fined by police for having attended a party in his
Downing Street office but he said he had not misled parliament because at the
time he believed the event was work-related and not a party.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Writing by William Schomberg Editing by Alexandra Hudson

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## United Kingdom

  * Analysis: UK's Brexit woes threaten another flagship policy: levelling-up, article with imageUnited Kingdom · June 24, 2022

Dashed hopes, so far at least, that Brexit would tilt Britain's economy
towards growth driven by trade and investment are threatening another of Prime
Minister Boris Johnson's flagship policies: "levelling up" the regions outside
of London.

  * Gallery

WorldHostel in Rwanda for UK asylum seekers prepares to take children, article
with galleryJune 25, 2022

  * Gallery

LifestyleEngland get Euros tonic with big win over Netherlands, article with
galleryJune 24, 2022

  * Gallery

LifestyleScotland close in on Women's World Cup playoff spot with 4-0 Ukraine
win, article with galleryJune 24, 2022

  * United StatesIMF slashes U.S. growth forecast, sees 'narrowing path' to avoid recession, article with imageJune 24, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

