Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

May 30, 202211:41 AM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Europe

# Dutch Crown Princess Amalia to study in Amsterdam

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

1 minute read

![Dutch King's Day celebrations in Maastricht](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/AXQVBIUD5JPG5BWGZIUMISOS6A.jpg)

Princess Catharina-Amalia of the Netherlands attends King's Day (Koningsdag)
celebrations, in Maastricht, Netherlands, April 27, 2022. REUTERS/Piroschka
van de Wouw

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

AMSTERDAM, May 30 (Reuters) - The heir to the Dutch throne, Crown Princess
Amalia, will become a University of Amsterdam student this year, the royal
information service (RVD) said on Monday, issuing a plea for her privacy to be
respected during her time on campus.

The eldest daughter of King Willem-Alexander, whose formal title is Princess
of Orange, will start her politics and economics degree in September 2022 and
live in rented accommodation shared with several other students, the RVD said.

Princess Amalia, who worked part-time job as a waitress during her school
years, began assuming some ceremonial duties for the House of Orange - which
retains the support of a majority of the Dutch population - in 2021 after
turning 18.  read more

She said in an approved biography published last year that, while she plans a
life in public service, she would prefer not to assume the throne for some
time.  read more

(This story corrects to show the princess is to begin studying in 2022 not
2023)

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Toby Sterling; editing by John Stonestreet and Jon Boyle

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Europe

  * UK, U.S., Japan and Canada to ban Russia gold imports, article with imageMarkets · June 26, 2022 · 7:18 AM UTC

Britain, the United States, Japan and Canada will ban new imports of Russian
gold as part of efforts to tighten the sanctions squeeze on Moscow for its
invasion of Ukraine, the British government said on Sunday.

  * WorldG7 leaders to discuss Iran nuclear talks revival, French official says, article with image1:15 PM UTC

  * Video

EuropeRussia's defense minister visits troops involved in Ukraine operation,
article with video2:57 PM UTC

  * EuropeFrance backs Russian gold ban, wants G7 oil, gas price shield, article with image10:40 AM UTC

  * EuropeEurope must give developing nations alternative to Chinese funds, von der Leyen says, article with image4:12 PM UTC

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

