Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 9, 202212:45 PM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Asia Pacific

# Sri Lanka president's brother, Basil Rajapaksa, resigns from parliament

By Uditha Jayasinghe

  *   *   *   *   * 

3 minute read

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

COLOMBO, June 9 (Reuters) - The brother of Sri Lanka's president and the
country's former finance minister, Basil Rajapaksa, said on Thursday he had
resigned from parliament, the second from the influential family to step away
from government amid a severe economic crisis.

"From today I will not be involved in any government activities but I cannot
and will not step away from politics," Rajapaksa said.

"The aim is to allow someone else to be appointed to parliament in my place
from the party," he told reporters in Colombo, Sri Lanka's commercial capital.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa's elder brother, Mahinda Rajapaksa, resigned as
prime minister last month after prolonged protests against the economic crisis
turned deadly.

Mahinda remains a member of parliament.

The three Rajapaksa siblings have been key players in Sri Lankan politics for
decades, but are blamed by protesters who have taken to the streets in their
thousands in recent months for mishandling the island nation's economy.

Infighting between the brothers has also played a part in Sri Lanka's slide
into turmoil but Basil Rajapaksa is likely to retain influence, Reuters has
reported.  read more

The country of 22 million people is suffering its worst economic crisis in
seven decades, with shortages of fuel, medicines and cooking gas because a
severe lack of foreign exchange has stalled imports.

![Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa's brother, Basil
Rajapaksa](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/N7SCKWSFSBL33PJ72KN4GUY6WU.jpg)

Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa's brother, Basil Rajapaksa, speaks
during an interview with Reuters in Colombo April 10, 2012. REUTERS/Dinuka
Liyanawatte

Sri Lanka's new prime minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, is now leading efforts
to find a way out of the crisis, with negotiations underway with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) for a loan programme and support from
friendly countries, including India and China.

However, with only one seat is parliament, Wickremesinghe is dependent on the
ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party, which Basil Rajapaksa has
helped rebuild into a political force.

"BR will continue to remain a force in Sri Lankan politics regardless of not
being a MP," said Bhavani Fonseka, a senior researcher at the Colombo think-
tank Centre for Policy Analysis, referring to Basil Rajapaksa by his initials.

"The question is how much influence or control he has over the SLPP," Fonseka
said.

The SLPP and its coalition partners have a comfortable majority in the
225-seat legislature, and several sources have previously told Reuters that
members of the ruling party remain loyal to Basil Rajapaksa.

The veteran politician, who served as finance minister between July, 2021 and
April this year, denied he had failed to slow Sri Lanka's descent into
financial turmoil.

""I was the person to send the first letter to the IMF after becoming finance
minister. It is the work I started that is now being taken forward," he said.

"I have no regrets."

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Uditha Jayasinghe, Writing by Devjyot Ghoshal; Editing by Himani
Sarkar

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Asia Pacific

  * South Korea's Yoon to meet U.S., Japan leaders in Spain during NATO summit, article with imageWorld · June 26, 2022 · 8:39 AM UTC

South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol will meet leaders of the United States
and Japan on Wednesday during the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
summit in Madrid, an official at the presidential office said on Sunday.

  * BusinessNASA to launch first rocket from a commercial spaceport in Australia on Sunday, article with image7:13 AM UTC

  * Video

Asia PacificTaliban calls for release of frozen funds after deadly earthquake,
article with video6:35 AM UTC

  * Video

Asia PacificTaliban appeal for more aid after deadly Afghanistan earthquake,
article with videoJune 25, 2022

  * Asia PacificTaiwan vice president has back surgery for herniated discs, article with image8:58 AM UTC

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

