Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 9, 20225:44 PM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Africa

# S.Africa's Ramaphosa suspends watchdog head to allow for probe

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

1 minute read

![South African President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the African Mining Indaba
2022, in Cape Town](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/UOXXXFPBHNIQFO7UUT474REDXM.jpg)

![Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane listens during a briefing at Parliament
in Cape Town](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/L7JWSQ4XURK6FCLS2ZDGI6SRPI.jpg)

![South African President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the African Mining Indaba
2022, in Cape Town](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/UOXXXFPBHNIQFO7UUT474REDXM.jpg)

1/2

Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane listens during a briefing at Parliament in
Cape Town, South Africa October 19, 2016. REUTERS/Mike Hutchings/File Photo

Read More

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

June 9 (Reuters) - South African President Cyril Ramaphosa suspended the
country's top anti-corruption official to pave way for an inquiry by a
parliamentary group into her ability to hold office, the government said on
Thursday.

Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, a constitutionally mandated anti-graft
official, was appointed in 2016 by Ramaphosa's predecessor Jacob Zuma. She is
seen as allied to Zuma's faction within the ruling African National Congress
(ANC) party, which is opposed to Ramaphosa's faction, a claim she has denied.

Her tenure has been marred by allegations she drove an anti-Ramaphosa campaign
and she has been widely criticised for losing several high-profile court
judgements.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

The development comes after the president asked Mkhwebane in March to provide
him with reasons not to suspend her, after a parliamentary committee decided
to continue with its motion to remove her.

On Wednesday, a statement issued by the Public Protector said Mkhwebane had
received unfair criticism and has also been accused by the media and
politicians of "targeting" certain members of the executive branch of
government and getting involved in party politics.

The South African parliament had in 2020 begun proceedings to oust her amid
criticism of her record in office.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Bhargav Acharya in Bengaluru Editing by James Macharia Chege and
Chris Reese

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Africa

  * Qatar's Emir arrives in Egypt in first official visit since boycott, article with imageMiddle East · June 25, 2022

Qatar's Emir arrived in Cairo on Friday on an official visit to meet Egypt's
President, Egyptian state TV reported, in the first trip to the country since
Cairo and Doha agreed last year to end a long-running regional feud.

  * BusinessSinovac's COVID-19 vaccine conditionally registered in South Africa, article with imageJune 25, 2022

  * AfricaZimbabwe healthcare workers temporarily call off wage strike, article with imageJune 25, 2022

  * AfricaLibyan leaders urged to agree on pathway to elections - U.S. State Dept, article with imageJune 24, 2022

  * AfricaSomali president tests positive for COVID-19, article with imageJune 24, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

