Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 22, 20225:30 PM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Europe

# Zelenskiy: Ordinary Ukrainians resisting Russia's invasion are my role
models

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

2 minute read

![Ukraine's President Zelenskiy visits Mykolaiv](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/VLGCWTEREROIFCQOAASFS2EGBM.jpg)

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy walks on a street during a visit to
the southern city of Mykolaiv, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues,
Ukraine June 18, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press Service/Handout via
REUTERS

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

June 22 (Reuters) - Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Wednesday
his role models were ordinary Ukrainians who resisted invading Russian forces
and he compared Russia to the fictional arch-villain Lord Voldemort in the
'Harry Potter' books.

Zelenskiy, dressed in a military uniform, was answering questions via
videolink from students at the Munk School of Global Affairs and Public Policy
at the University of Toronto.

Asked by one student who his role models were, Zelenskiy said: "The people of
Ukraine... and there are very many of them."

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

"An ordinary Ukrainian farmer who could take his tractor and close off a road
to Russian tanks, an ordinary woman who would go out and stop armoured
vehicles with her bare hands... Those are the people I look up to," he said
via an interpreter.

The student noted that Zelenskiy has been compared by his supporters to
British World War Two leader Winston Churchill and to Harry Potter, the
fictional boy wizard who finally defeats his archenemy Lord Voldemort.

"Thank you for these kind of comparisons. Harry Potter is better than
Voldemort, and we know who is Voldemort in this war, and who is Harry Potter,
so we know how the war will end," Zelenskiy said, smiling.

Zelenskiy, 44, a former comedian who once played a fictional president in a
popular TV series before entering politics, has drawn international praise for
refusing to leave Ukraine during the war and for rallying Ukrainians to resist
the invasion.

Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a "special military operation" to disarm
the country and rid it of "fascists". Ukraine and its Western backers say this
is a false pretext for waging an unprovoked war of aggression.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Nerijus Adomaitis Editing by Gareth Jones

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Europe

  * UK, U.S., Japan and Canada to ban Russia gold imports, article with imageMarkets · June 26, 2022 · 7:18 AM UTC

Britain, the United States, Japan and Canada will ban new imports of Russian
gold as part of efforts to tighten the sanctions squeeze on Moscow for its
invasion of Ukraine, the British government said on Sunday.

  * WorldG7 leaders to discuss Iran nuclear talks revival, French official says, article with image1:15 PM UTC

  * Video

EuropeRussia's defense minister visits troops involved in Ukraine operation,
article with video2:57 PM UTC

  * EuropeFrance backs Russian gold ban, wants G7 oil, gas price shield, article with image10:40 AM UTC

  * EuropeEurope must give developing nations alternative to Chinese funds, von der Leyen says, article with image4:12 PM UTC

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

