Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Search
icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, "Click to perform a search".

Insider logo The word "Insider".

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Subscribe  Subscribe

  * Business The word Business
  * Life The word Life
  * News The word News
  * Reviews The word Reviews

  * Business 
    * Tech
    * Finance
    * Markets
    * Strategy
    * Retail
    * Advertising
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
  * Life 
    * Entertainment
    * Culture
    * Travel
    * Food
    * Health
    * Parenting
    * Beauty
    * Style
  * News 
    * Politics
    * Military & Defense
    * Sports
    * Opinion
  * Reviews 
    * Tech
    * Streaming
    * Home
    * Kitchen
    * Style
    * Beauty
    * Gifts
    * Deals
    * Pets
    * Parenting
    * Coupons
    * Health
    * Learning
    * Hobbies & Crafts
    * Travel
  * All 
    * A-Z
    * Advertising
    * Business
    * Careers
    * Coupons
      * DoorDash
      * Walmart
      * Dell
      * Staples
      * Under Armour
    * Culture
    * Design
    * Entertainment
    * Executive Lifestyle
    * Finance
    * Food
    * Health
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
    * Latest
    * Life
    * Markets Insider
    * Media
    * Military & Defense
    * News
    * Opinion
    * People
    * Personal Finance
      * Banking
      * Credit Cards
      * Insurance
      * Investing
      * Loans
      * Mortgages
    * Politics
    * Premium
    * Retail
    * Reviews
    * Science
    * Sports
    * Strategy
    * Tech
    * Transportation
    * Travel
    * TV
      * Beauty Explorers
      * Best in Town
      * Bonkers Closets
      * Festival Foodies
      * Movies Insider
      * Pop Culture Decoded
      * The Making Of
      * The Ultimate List
    * Featured
    * Better Capitalism
    * Cities Connected
    * Insider TV
    * Master Your Money
    * Next Stop
    * Sustainable Finance
    * Transforming Business
    * About
    * About
    * Advertise
    * Careers
    * Contact Us
    * Corporate
    * Corrections Policy
    * Follow
    * RSS
    * Sitemap
    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Instagram
    * YouTube
    * LinkedIn
    * Subscriptions
    * Intelligence
    * Premium

US Markets Loading... H M S In the news

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous
/ next navigation options. HOMEPAGE

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Subscribe  Subscribe

Home  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes
previous / next navigation options. Politics

# RESULTS: Montana holds congressional primaries

Madison Hall

2022-06-08T02:00:26Z

Save Article Icon A bookmark Facebook Icon The letter F. Email icon An
envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.

Share icon An curved arrow pointing right.

Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. Twitter LinkedIn
icon The word "in". LinkedIn Fliboard icon A stylized letter F. Flipboard Link
icon An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url. Copy Link

Download the app

![2022 Montana Congressional
Primaries](https://i.insider.com/629e7903987cff0019bab8c1?width=700)

Insider

Montana is holding congressional primaries on Tuesday. Polls closed at 8 p.m.
local time and 10 p.m. ET.

## The races and the stakes:

Montana gained one new seat in the House of Representatives after the 2020
Census, doubling the state's representation in the House, and shifting the
political landscape of the state in the process.

The state's 1st Congressional District, located in the western region of
Montana, is open and has no incumbent in the race.

The GOP field in Montana's 1st District includes five candidates: Mitch Heuer,
Matt Jette, former state Sen. Albert Olszewski, pastor Mary Todd, and Ryan
Zinke, the former US representative, Navy SEAL, and former interior secretary
under President Donald Trump.

While some of his opponents are trying to label Zinke as too "Liberal," he
received an endorsement from Trump in July 2021, whom Zinke recently referred
to as a "kingmaker." Zinke stepped down from his role with the Trump
administration in December 2018 amid a series of ethics probes into
questionable expenditures.

There are three candidates on the Democratic side: Cora Neumann, former state
Sen. Tom Winter, and lawyer Monica Tranel.

Four Republicans will be facing off in the eastern 2nd Congressional District:
Charles A. Walking Child, Kyle Austin, James Boyette, and Rep. Matt Rosendale,
the current representative for Montana's at-large Congressional district.
Rosendale also received an endorsement from Trump in July 2021.

On the Democratic side, there will be three candidates on the ballot — only
two, however, are living: Penny Ronning and Skylar Williams. Former state Rep.
Mark Sweeney will also be included on the ballot, though he unexpectedly died
in early May.

Republicans are predicted to do well in the general elections come November —
according to Sabato's Crystal Ball at the University of Virginia's Center for
Politics, the 1st Congressional District is rated as "Likely R" and the 2nd
Congressional District as "Safe R."

###  **Follow Insider's live coverage of all of Tuesday night's primaries
here.**

![A picture of a switch and lightbulb](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/shared/light-switch.png)

Sign up for notifications from Insider! Stay up to date with what you want to
know.

Subscribe to push notifications

Deal icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

Keep reading

Newsletter

Sign up for our newsletter to receive our top stories based on your reading
preferences — delivered daily to your inbox.

Loading Something is loading.

Email address

By clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as
well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy
Policy.

###  NOW WATCH:

More: INSIDER Data 2022 election 2022 elections Montana

  * Ryan Zinke
  * Elections
  * BI Graphics
  * Rebecca Zisser

Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous
/ next navigation options.

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Recommended Video

![Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/Insider-
logo-dark-opt.svg)

![Business Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/US/logos/BI-logo-dark-opt.svg)

Follow us on:

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/facebook.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/twitter.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/linkedin.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/youtube.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/instagram.svg)

![Download on the App Store](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/app-store-badge.svg)

![Get it on Google Play](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/google-play-badge.svg)

  * * Copyright © 2022 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
  * Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy and  Cookies Policy . 

  * Contact Us
  * Sitemap
  * Disclaimer
  * Accessibility
  * Commerce Policy
  * Advertising Policies
  * CA Privacy Rights
  * Coupons
  * Made in NYC
  * Jobs

  * Stock quotes by finanzen.net
  * Reprints & Permissions

  * International Editions:
  * United States US
  * International INTL
  * Asia AS
  * Deutschland & Österreich AT
  * Deutschland DE
  * España ES
  * India IN
  * Japan JP
  * México MX
  * Netherlands NL
  * Polska PL
  * South Africa ZA

![Insider.com TM Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-com-trademark-opt.svg)

![Insider-Inc Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-inc.svg)

![Business Insider DE Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/DE/logos/BI-DE-Black-on-Light-final-footer-logo-opt.svg)

