BBC Homepage

  * Skip to content
  * Accessibility Help

  * Your account

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * More menu

More menu

Search BBC

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

Close menu

BBC News

Menu

  * Home
  * War in Ukraine
  * Coronavirus
  * Climate
  * Video
  * World
  * US & Canada
  * UK
  * Business
  * Tech
  * Science

More

  * Stories
  * Entertainment & Arts
  * Health
  * In Pictures
  * Reality Check
  * World News TV
  * Newsbeat
  * Long Reads

  * World
  * Africa
  * Asia
  * Australia
  * Europe
  * Latin America
  * Middle East

# France elections: Macron rejects prime minister's offer to resign

Published

    5 days ago

Share

close

Share page

Copy link

About sharing

Related Topics

  * French elections 2022

![French President Emmanuel Macron and French Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne
attend a
ceremony](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/E583/production/_125555785_hi076801860-1.jpg)Image
source, Reuters

Image caption,

The Élysée palace said Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne's offer to resign was
rejected by President Macron on Tuesday

 **French President Emmanuel Macron has rejected a resignation offer from the
prime minister he appointed, saying instead that the government must "stay on
task and act".**

Elisabeth Borne was criticised by some commentators after Mr Macron's
coalition lost its majority on Sunday.

Her future looked under threat after the result, which left the president
needing to secure support from rivals.

He is set to meet his political opponents for rare talks on Tuesday.

But neither Marine Le Pen's far-right nor Jean-Luc Mélenchon's left-green
alliance are keen to work with Mr Macron's centrist government, which is 44
seats shy of a majority and desperately trying to avoid political paralysis.

The Élysée palace said Ms Borne formally offered to resign on Tuesday morning,
submitting a letter to Mr Macron - the head of state - who turned it down.

Mr Macron refused the offer "so that the government can remain on task and
act", the Élysée palace said, adding that he would seek "constructive
solutions" to ending the deadlock that threatens his agenda during his second
term.

It is customary for the French prime minister to offer to resign following
parliamentary elections. Often, the president will simply reappoint the same
person so that he or she can begin constructing a new government.

But the situation is different this time, as Mr Macron is telling Ms Borne to
stay in office with the same cabinet without resigning.

It is probably an effort to buy time, analysts suggest, adding that at some
point, a new government will be formed which may or may not have Ms Borne at
its head.

  * France's far right and left both make breakthroughs
  * What now for Macron after poll setback?

Meanwhile, party representatives will visit the Élysée Palace for high-level
talks on Tuesday and Wednesday.

Analysts say the president may be eyeing a deal with the right-wing
Republicans. The party confirmed that its leader, Christian Jacob, would
attend the talks.

But prospects of a deal appeared dim in the run-up to the talks, as Mr Jacob
hit out at Mr Macron in an interview with France Inter radio. "He's the one
who's been arrogant and now he calls for help," he said.

"We are very clear on our stance, we are in the opposition to Emmanuel Macron
and will remain there," he added.

Ms Le Pen will take part but Mr Mélenchon will not, the AFP news agency
reports.

Socialist Party leader Olivier Faure and Communist Party boss Fabien Roussel,
members of the Nupes left-wing alliance, will also meet Mr Macron.

![French election
result](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/1024/cpsprodpb/17A05/production/_125537769_french_election-
nc-2x.png)

![1px transparent
line](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/624/cpsprodpb/4BEB/production/_112953491__108802839_624_transparent-
nc.png)

Having no clear majority in the National Assembly is likely to make it far
harder for Mr Macron to implement his agenda during his second five-year term.

He has laid out a series of plans to tackle the spiralling cost of living,
including food vouchers and enhanced benefits. Another big reform is gradually
raising the retirement age from 62 to 65, which has proved unpopular with much
of the electorate.

Opponents from the right and left aim to resist the president's programme of
reforms, although Ms Le Pen's National Rally has said it may back measures to
alleviate the cost of living crisis if their own proposals are adopted.

## More on this story

  * France's far right and left both make breakthroughs

    6 days ago

![French far right candidate Marine Le Pen of the RN, Rassemblement National
party \(National Rally in French\), talks to the
media](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/12B14/production/_125546567_hi076677431.jpg)

  * What now for Macron after poll setback?

    6 days ago

![Emmanuel Macron arriving to vote in the second stage of French parliamentary
elections at a polling station in Le Touquet, northern
France](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/2051/production/_125537280_gettyimages-1241397092.jpg)

  * Ungovernable? France takes stock after Macron blow

    6 days ago

![French President Emmanuel Macron and French Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne
attend a
ceremony](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/114B2/production/_125543807_hi076801860.jpg)

## Related Topics

  * France
  * French elections 2022
  * Emmanuel Macron

## Top Stories

  * Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

Published

    1 hour ago

  * What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

Published

    4 hours ago

  * Chaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest. VideoChaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest

Published

    6 hours ago

## Features

  * Helping families locate the missing in Ukraine war

![Ukrainian servicemen leave the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Ukraine, 20
May
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/E416/production/_125609385_hi076160151.jpg)

  * Pots, trays, tubs - consumers confront their plastic footprint

![Jules Birkby's daughter was shocked by how much plastic they used in a
week](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/15EB5/production/_125618798_theplasticcount-
emmyisshocked.jpg)

  * G7 face battle for unity as cost of war mounts

![unexploded bomb in
kharkiv](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/8C8D/production/_125618953_mediaitem125618951.jpg)

  * The priceless Nigerian sculpture stuck with UK police

![The stolen Ife
bronze](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/C25B/production/_125555794_bp2_976_2.png)

  * Inside Ukraine's International Legion. VideoInside Ukraine's International Legion

![Ukrainian International Legion
Soldiers](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/27CF/production/_125619101_p0ch58xk.jpg)

  * The Indians choosing not to have children. VideoThe Indians choosing not to have children

![A growing number of Indian are deciding to never become parents. The BBC
spoke to a few to find out
why](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/14B34/production/_125588748_p0cgnfnd.jpg)

  * How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

![Sullivan
family](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/113F7/production/_125574607_sullivans.jpg)

  * Four things we've learned from Jan 6 hearings

![Liz Cheney speaks during the fifth hearing by the House Select Committee to
investigation the 6 January attack on the US
Capitol](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/A9EB/production/_125599434_d20ed912-f529-4d06-b300-87ebc8a3dc05.jpg)

  * The surprising reason more Americans are turning to psychedelic drugs

![Brain surrounded by psychedelic
colours](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/11E4A/production/_125609237_screenshot2022-06-24at15.45.08.png)

## Elsewhere on the BBC

  * Why top chefs are leaving Paris

"It started before Covid, but it was discreet"

![Berry Tart and food](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/47E7/production/_125570481_parischefsleaving.jpg)

  * The films bringing sex work to life

Has cinema perpetuated damaging stereotypes?

![people on bed](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/15957/production/_125570488_sexworkfilms.jpg)

  * Has human progress peaked?

A growing and influential intellectual movement aims to understand why human
progress happens – and how to speed it up

![night photographer](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/D4EB/production/_125570545_humanprogresspeaked.jpg)

## Most Read

  1. 1Prince Charles 'accepted a suitcase with 1m euros'

  2. 2Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

  3. 3What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

  4. 4South African police investigate nightclub deaths

  5. 5US firms pledge to pay abortion travel expenses

  6. 6G7 leaders meet amid political pressures at home

  7. 7U2 singer Bono discovered he has a half-brother

  8. 8How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

  9. 9The world reacts to US abortion ruling

  10. 10Russia on brink of default as debt deadline looms

## BBC News Services

  * On your mobile
  * On smart speakers
  * Get news alerts
  * Contact BBC News

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

  * Terms of Use
  * About the BBC
  * Privacy Policy
  * Cookies
  * Accessibility Help
  * Parental Guidance
  * Contact the BBC
  * Get Personalised Newsletters
  * Why you can trust the BBC
  * Advertise with us
  * AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info

© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read
about our approach to external linking.

![](https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/p?c1=2&c2=17986528&cs_ucfr=0&cv=2.0&cj=1)

