Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionAmrut, founded in 1948, is one of India’s biggest whisky brands.
It used to make its ‘whisky’ with sugarcane molasses, which meant the EU
regarded it as rum, but now uses grain

Global development

# How India’s new taste for homegrown whisky is shaking up the global drinks
market

Sales of Indian single malts are booming as a new generation sheds old notions
about the superiority of imported brands

Global development is supported by

About this content

Global development is supported by

About this content

Global development is supported by

About this content

Global development is supported by

About this content

Charu Sudan Kasturi

Sat 4 Jun 2022 09.00 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

For years, Mohinder Singh’s trips outside India meant an obligatory stop at
the airport duty-free liquor store, where he would join long queues to stock
up on imported single-malt whisky. Then three years ago, he came across a
brand – Paul John – that he had never heard of, at a tasting event a few miles
from Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, where he teaches politics. It was an
Indian single malt; its smoky smell was rich, the taste was even better. Singh
was hooked.

“That was a gamechanger for me,” he says. Singh introduced his friends to the
brand, which is now their drink of choice when they meet. “Everyone loves it.”

They are not alone. Drinkers in India, the world’s most lucrative whisky
market – worth $18.8bn (£15bn) last year – have traditionally clinked glasses
of blended whiskies or imported single malts. Now several Indian single malts
that were launched internationally a few years ago – led by Paul John, Amrut
and Rampur – are grabbing a major share of the domestic market. It is a
seismic shift for the global whisky industry.

Vinod Giri, who heads the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies
(CIABC), says homegrown single malts constitute 33% of the market in India, up
from 15% five years ago. That figure is poised for an even more rapid rise:
sales have surged by an average annual rate of 42% over the past three years,
compared with just 7% for imported rivals, according to CIABC data.

Michael D’Souza, master distiller at India’s Paul John, prepares to taste from
a cask.

This trend has caught the attention of global firms too. Diageo, the world’s
second-biggest alcohol company by valuation and headquartered in London,
launched an Indian-made single malt in March called Godawan. “Global giants
are recognising the demand for homegrown single malts in India,” says Sanjeev
Banga, an executive at Radico Khaitan, the makers of Rampur. “What bigger
endorsement could there be?

That “endorsement” comes two decades after the European Union refused to even
recognise Indian whisky. Historically, India grappled with shortages of grain,
but it produced lots of sugarcane, so liquor companies such as Amrut, which
was founded in 1948, relied on spirits derived from molasses. The EU, however,
said that meant that what India claimed to be whisky was actually rum.

Now India is one of the world’s largest producers of wheat. In 2004, Amrut
launched India’s first single malt in Glasgow, before expanding across Europe.
It entered the Indian market in 2010. Paul John took a similar route –
introducing its single malt in the UK in 2012, and then to Indian consumers in
2013. Rampur joined them in 2015. Indri Trini, a new Indian single malt from
the northern state of Haryana, was launched last year and has already won
international awards.

“Only the crème de la crème of Indian society was familiar with single malts
until recently, and it only knew and trusted foreign whisky,” says Pramod
Kashyap, Amrut’s head of international operations, explaining why Indian
brands were more confident about launching their whiskies globally than they
were about their home market.

However, their gamble on Indian consumers has paid off handsomely as India’s
whisky drinkers’ tastes have evolved.

Burning issue: how enzymes could end India’s problem with stubble

A new generation has grown up without the colonially ingrained assumption that
imported goods are superior to Indian products, says Giri. “They go by their
judgment of quality rather than origin of the product,” he says. “There is in
fact a reverse underlying notion of Indian products being at par or even
better than global products.”

Indian whiskies also offer unique tastes, says Devaki Rajagopalan, a
Bengaluru-based marketing executive. Her favourite is Amrut Amalgam, which
marries the fruity flavours of nectarine, melon and pears with the smokiness
of peat and the sharp punch of Indian black pepper. “I’ve tried whiskies
around the world and I’ve never had an aftertaste that lingers so powerfully,”
she says.

Her father, she says, only drank blended whiskies and was reluctant to change,
but the subtle infusion of Indian tastes – such as the pepper in Amrut Amalgam
– converted him.

It is not just what is added that makes the flavours different, though, says
Giri. India’s hot and humid weather plays a critical role too, ageing whisky
faster than Scotland’s cooler climate. “Such rapid ageing lends some unique
taste profile and texture to Indian single malts,” he says.

The rise of Indian whisky-makers has led to the emergence of enthusiasts who
meet for tasting sessions and review new offerings.

Production at the Amrut distillery in Bengaluru. Photograph: Mint/Hindustan
Times/Getty

It was at one such session, organised by Bengaluru’s Single Malt Amateur Club,
that Rajagopalan first tried Amrut two years ago. After seeing the club’s
online review of Amrut Neidhal – a new limited-edition whisky described as
having notes of sea salt, orange peel and the smell of coastal peat – last
November, she rushed to get a bottle. In her Tamil language, Neidhal means a
coastal town. “These little associations make it a personal, warm experience,”
she says.

Breaking with the elitism often associated with single malts in India,
reviewers are appraising homegrown whiskies in local languages, as well as
English, reaching new audiences.

When you get a single malt that’s as good or better, at less than half the
price, it’s an offer you can’t refuse

Their relatively low price compared with imported whisky have also helped
Indian brands. In his Delhi suburb of Gurgaon, Singh can buy a bottle of Paul
John for about £22, while Amrut Amalgam costs £28. India imposes a 150% tariff
on imported whiskies, so Glenmorangie costs £67.

“Indian consumers of single malt never had a top-quality alternative to
imported whiskies,” says Singh. “When you get a single malt that’s as good or
better, at less than half the price, it’s an offer you can’t refuse.”

In 2020, the Indian government banned foreign spirits at the country’s
4,000-odd stores for the armed forces, creating a captive market, says Giri.
Also, the disruption of global supply chains by the coronavirus pandemic
exposed many Indian drinkers to local whiskies for the first time, he says.
“Once consumers found them matching their expectations, they stayed.”

All of this has combined to create an explosion in local demand that Indian
manufacturers had not planned for. Amrut produced 350,000 litres of single
malt in 2019; today it distils 1m litres, says Kashyap. Some of Rampur’s
offerings are sold out and Radico Khaitan is struggling to meet demand, says
Banga. “We just don’t have the capacity to produce what we know we can sell.
We hope to get there in a couple of years, and I promise you, you’ll see a lot
more Rampur on shelves.”

That might depend on how Indian single malts is served by the free trade
agreement Delhi is negotiating with London. When Boris Johnson was foreign
secretary, he described bringing a bottle of scotch when he visited the family
of his half-Indian former wife Marina Wheeler so they could avoid the high
import tariffs. “This is the time to tear these barriers down,” he said.

Zimbabweans put their country on the map in the world of wine

But dramatic cuts in tariffs, as the UK wants, “could give us a bloody nose”,
says Kashyap. A free trade agreement could be troubling for Indian
manufacturers if Britain continues to insist that whisky must be aged for at
least three years in wooden casks, says Giri. In India’s climate, that would
evaporate 30% of the whisky, he says, pushing costs up to an “unviable level”,
with the result that Indian whiskies would not get the access to British
markets that UK single malts have in India.

Nevertheless, Banga says he is confident that Indian single malts can weather
competition from imports, even if they are priced similarly. “Remember, we’ve
competed with them abroad,” he says.

For whisky drinkers such as Singh and Rajagopalan, there is no turning back.
On a forthcoming trip to Goa with her father, Rajagopalan wants to visit Paul
John’s distillery. “It’s exciting – the trip almost feels like a pilgrimage,”
she says.

 _Sign up for a different view with our Global Dispatch newsletter – a roundup
of our top stories from around the world, recommended reads, and thoughts from
our team on key development and human rights issues, delivered to your inbox
every two weeks:_

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Global development
  * The Observer

  * India
  * South and central Asia
  * Whisky
  * Spirits
  * Food & drink industry
  * Food
  * features

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

