Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 22, 20226:43 AM UTCLast Updated ago

  * India

# India's ruling party nominates tribal, female politician for president

By Jatindra Dash And Nigam Prusty

  *   *   *   *   * 

2 minute read

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

BHUBANESWAR,India June 22 (Reuters) - A female Indian politician from a tribal
community has been nominated as presidential candidate by Prime Minister
Narendra Modi's ruling nationalist party, officials said on Wednesday.

Droupadi Murmu, 64, a veteran politician who has held senior posts in the
eastern state of Odisha, is almost certain to be elected as Modi's ruling
Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) holds a majority in parliament and is likely to
get the support of other parties in state assemblies, say political analysts.

Lawmakers vote for India's largely ceremonial president. The presidential poll
will be held in July.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Born in a family of the Santhal tribe, Murmu started her career as a school
teacher and actively participated on tribal rights issues. She later joined
mainstream politics and served as a lawmaker and governor of the eastern state
of Jharkhand.

Murmu "devoted her life to serving society and empowering the poor,
downtrodden as well as the marginalised," Modi said in a tweet late on Tuesday
night, after her name was announced as a candidate.

"I am confident she will be a great president of our nation," Modi said.

If elected, Murmu will become the first tribal president and the second-ever
female president.

Indian opposition parties said they would back Yashwant Sinha, a former BJP
federal finance minister before he turned rebel, as their candiate for the
presidential election.

The Indian Constitution provides a largely ceremonial role for the president,
with the prime minister and his cabinet holding executive powers.

But the president has a key role during political crises, such as when a
general election is inconclusive, by deciding which party is in the best
position to form a federal government.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Additional reporting, writing by Shilpa Jamkhandikar in Mumbai; Editing by
Rupam Jain and Michael Perry

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## India

  * Indian shares rise as automakers enjoy best day in over two years, article with imageMarkets · June 23, 2022

Indian shares bucked a broader downturn on Thursday as weak metal and oil
prices drove beaten-down automakers to their best day since April 2020.

  * IndiaRussian oil tankers get India safety cover via Dubai company, article with imageJune 23, 2022

  * Asia PacificChina: Border issues with India should be resolved through dialogue, article with imageJune 22, 2022

  * Macro MattersIndia cenbank deputy: rates hikes the only way to curb inflation - minutes, article with imageJune 22, 2022

  * IndiaIndia's Jan-March current account gap narrows sequentially on lower trade gap, article with imageJune 22, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

