Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Rishi Sunak announces £5bn windfall tax on energy firms to ease cost of living
crisis – video

Rishi Sunak

# Rishi Sunak announces £5bn windfall tax on energy firms

‘Temporary, targeted’ levy part of £15bn package intended to soften impact of
cost of living crisis

  * **Today’s politics news – live updates**

Heather Stewart Political editor

Thu 26 May 2022 08.17 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

1 month old

Rishi Sunak has announced a £15bn package of support for households struggling
with the cost of living crisis, part-funded by a £5bn windfall tax on energy
companies.

The chancellor set out what he called a “significant set of interventions” to
help offset the impact of rocketing inflation.

These will include a £650 one-off payment for families on means-tested
benefits, and an extra £200 for all energy bill payers that will not have to
be repaid.

The package will be partly funded by what Sunak called a “temporary, targeted
energy profits levy” – a windfall tax.

Rishi Sunak announces cost of living measures – key points at a glance

“The oil and gas sector is making extraordinary profits, not as the result of
recent changes to risk-taking or innovation or efficiency, but as the result
of surging global commodity prices driven in part by Russia’s war,” he said.

He therefore announced what he called a “temporary, targeted energy profits
levy” of 25% but with a 90% tax relief for firms that invest in oil and gas
extraction in the UK.

Sunak said he was also “urgently evaluating” the scale of excess profits made
by electricity generators.

Responding to Sunak’s statement in the House of Commons, the shadow
chancellor, Rachel Reeves, said his adoption of a windfall tax showed Labour
was “winning the battle of ideas in Britain”.

“Today it feels like the chancellor has finally realised the problems that the
country is facing. We first called for a windfall tax on oil and gas producers
nearly five months ago to help struggling families and pensioners. Today he
has announced that policy but he can’t dare say the words. It’s a policy that
dare not speak its name,” she said.

Sunak told MPs: “The high inflation we are experiencing now is causing acute
distress for the people of this country.” Annual inflation hit 9% in April,
the highest rate for 40 years.

He said the public would understand that ministers could not offset all of the
increase in prices. But he said: “This government will never stop trying to
help people”, adding: “We will get through this.”

“We will send directly to around 8 million of the lowest-income households a
one-off cost of living payment of £650 – support worth over £5m – to give
vulnerable people certainty that we are standing by them at this challenging
time,” the chancellor said.

He also announced that more than 8 million pensioner households that receive
the winter fuel payment would receive an extra £300, while 6 million disabled
people would get a one-off payment of £150.

He said one-third of households would receive the targeted support, which is
worth £9bn in total.

In addition to the targeted support, all households would receive an extra
£200 discount on their fuel bills in October, in addition to the £200 already
promised.

But in a U-turn on the rebate scheme announced in February, Sunak said
households would now not need to repay this £400 in the coming years.
Previously, they had been expected to repay the discount over the coming five
years.

Sunak said spending measures to tackle the crisis had to be “timely, temporary
and targeted” to avoid stoking inflation.

He set out the plans just two months after giving a spring statement that was
criticised across the political spectrum for failing to do enough for the
poorest households.

The energy regulator, Ofgem, warned earlier this week that the annual price
cap limiting household power bills was likely to rise by a further £800 in
October, after the £700 increase in April.

Several cabinet ministers, including the energy secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, had
previously expressed opposition to a windfall tax, an idea that has been
advocated by Labour and the Liberal Democrats.

But the Treasury and No 10 have increasingly warmed to the idea as it became
clear they would have to take more action to offset the once-in-a-generation
increase in household energy bills.

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Rishi Sunak

  * Cost of living crisis
  * Tax and spending
  * Energy bills
  * Household bills
  * Energy industry
  * Consumer affairs
  * news

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

