Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionPrince Charles and Prince William leave the Order of the Garter
Service at St George's Chapel, Windsor, 13 June 2022. Photograph: WPA/Getty
Images

Opinion

# Get ready for King Charles, the monarch who speaks his mind

Simon Jenkins

He has described as ‘appalling’ the Tories’ plans to deport asylum seekers to
Rwanda. Don’t expect him to change

Mon 13 Jun 2022 13.03 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

The government’s decision to deport asylum seekers to Rwanda faces more
serious opposition than from the Prince of Wales. It has come from
international lawyers, Amnesty International, civil service unions, the weight
of liberal opinion and now the court of appeal. Even so, for the prince to
reportedly declare the prime minister’s policy on migration to be “appalling”
is unusual. Is it significant?

The answer is no. A mountain of constitutional pomposity envelops Britain’s
monarchy, as if stepping an inch out of line presages a republican coup.
Prince Charles is not the monarch and even if he were, he would have no power
over policy. He may generate a headline or two when an aide or friend breaks
confidence in anonymous collusion with a newspaper. In the Rwanda case,
widespread support for the prince is due to the fact that many people happen
to agree with him. But anyway – so what?

Heirs to the throne have no duty other than to stay alive. The thesis put
forward by the constitutional historian Vernon Bogdanor that they “must never
say or do anything that would embarrass” the monarch is mere public relations.
It has long been breached, notably by the heirs to Queen Victoria and to
virtually every one of the Georges, not least the future Edward VIII during
the Great Depression. Prince Charles has long voiced opinions on matters as
diverse as architecture, medicine and the environment. He has strong views and
mostly steers them clear of partisan politics, except perhaps for his reputed
(private) enthusiasm for the Social Democratic party in the 1980s. Somehow
monarchy retains its dignity, even amid the harmless, B-movie “thank you” of
this month’s jubilee celebrations.

Prince Charles criticises ‘appalling’ Rwanda migrant scheme – reports

Which leaves open how the prince as king means to interpret the full range of
Bagehot’s constitutional duties imposed on the monarch, to “counsel, encourage
and warn”. He has adamantly asserted that as monarch he will be detached from
politics. In appointing ministers, summoning parliaments and signing bills, he
must do so robotically, without substance or discretion. Should the monarch
refuse on principle to sign a bill, as in Mike Bartlett’s 2014 drama King
Charles III, he knows he would have to abdicate. Meanwhile he can hardly hope
to keep his views on current affairs entirely to himself, running the
occasional risk of a broken confidence.

Perhaps as king, Charles might risk a new deal. There are rumours that he
hopes to reduce the scale of the disparate royal family and its establishment.
The flummery of monarchy as a military costume drama is outdated, as is the
extent of its private London estate. Outdated, too, is the rejection of
retirement, now customary for monarchies across Europe.

In return for a long-overdue modernisation, Charles might choose to play a
more active role in “counselling, encouraging and warning”. He has long
contributed to the cultural and intellectual life of the nation. Given a new
informality and a reduced profile, he could reasonably trespass on to some of
the issues now upheaving the nation that he clearly holds dear. He would have
no power of decision and no influence beyond that of debate. I am sure
monarchy would survive the shock.

  * Simon Jenkins is a Guardian columnist  

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Monarchy
  * Opinion

  * Prince Charles
  * comment

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

