Sections

SEARCH

Skip to contentSkip to site index

Politics

Log in

Today’s Paper

Politics|Winning When Trump Is Against You: A How-To Guide

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/15/us/politics/trump-elections-win-lose-
candidates.html

  * Give this article

  *   * 

### 2022 Midterm Elections

  * Primary Calendar
  * Midterms Guide
  * Redistricting, Explained

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

# Winning When Trump Is Against You: A How-To Guide

A blueprint is emerging for Republicans who defy the 45th president and still
hope to win a G.O.P. primary. Here are five rules of political survival for
the aspiring Trump critic.

  *  **Send any friend a story**

As a subscriber, you have **10 gift articles** to give each month. Anyone can
read what you share.

Give this article

  *   *   * Read in app

This article is part of our Midterms 2022 Daily Briefing

![Representative Nancy Mace of South Carolina won her primary on Tuesday
despite opposition from Donald Trump. While she did not vote to impeach him,
she did criticize him on TV after the Capitol
riot.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/06/15/multimedia/15onpolitics-
mace/15onpolitics-mace-
articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

Representative Nancy Mace of South Carolina won her primary on Tuesday despite
opposition from Donald Trump. While she did not vote to impeach him, she did
criticize him on TV after the Capitol riot.Credit...Allison Joyce/Getty Images

![Blake
Hounshell](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/01/01/us/politics/blake-
hounshell/blake-hounshell-thumbLarge-v2.png)

By Blake Hounshell

  * June 15, 2022

Are you a Republican who broke with Donald Trump but hope to win your upcoming
primary?

Maybe you said that Joe Biden is the duly elected president, condemned Trump’s
demagogy on Jan. 6 or merely suggested that he tone down his social media
posts.

This handy guide is for you.

So far, Trump’s preferred candidates have won primaries for Senate seats in
Georgia, Ohio, North Carolina and Pennsylvania. One of those candidates, J.D.
Vance, overcame his past comments ripping Trump as “cultural heroin” by
undergoing a wholesale reinvention of his political persona.

Others, like Gov. Brian Kemp and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger of
Georgia, have defied him and survived, without such a radical about-face.

So what explains why some Trump critics succeed and others don’t? Here, based
on a review of the results of this year’s primaries and conversations with
roughly a dozen Republican strategists, are a few lessons:

###  **1\. Do not vote to impeach him.**

This much is clear at the midway point of this year’s election calendar: The
Republican base regards having voted to impeach Trump as the ultimate act of
betrayal.

The former president has already induced the retirements of four of the 10
House Republicans who supported his impeachment in 2021, while helping to oust
another — Representative Tom Rice, who lost his coastal South Carolina seat on
Tuesday by more than 25 percentage points.

One impeacher, Representative David Valadao, is clinging to second place ahead
of a Trump-friendly challenger in his district in California, where the top
two vote winners of any party move forward to the general election.

Four others — Representatives Liz Cheney of Wyoming, Jaime Herrera Beutler and
Dan Newhouse of Washington, and Peter Meijer of Michigan — have yet to face
the music.

Only one of the seven Republican senators who voted to convict Trump over Jan.
6 is running for re-election this year: Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. In her case,
a new voting system engineered by her allies could help her fend off a
challenge from Kelly Tshibaka, a former federal government official who has
the former president’s backing.

###  **2\. Choose your location wisely.**

Representative Nancy Mace of South Carolina, who did not vote to impeach
Trump, made the former president’s enemies list for criticizing him on
television after the events of Jan. 6, 2021. He called her a “grandstanding
loser” and mocked her for filming a video praising him in front of Trump Tower
in New York.

But she never got fundamentally out of step with the South Carolina
Lowcountry, a libertarian-leaning area with a history of electing iconoclastic
lawmakers. Mace grew up in Goose Creek, just outside Charleston. That local
familiarity gave her an intuitive feel for navigating issues like offshore
drilling, which is unpopular in the coastal region.

“She did a much better job of staying aligned with her district,” said Mick
Mulvaney, a former South Carolina congressman who was White House chief of
staff during Trump’s first impeachment.

Rice, by contrast, “almost took the attitude to dare people to throw him out,”
Mulvaney said — standing emphatically by his impeachment vote despite
representing a district that Trump won by more than 18 percentage points in
2020.

The backbone of Rice’s district is fast-growing Horry County, a historically
conservative region filled with “angry retirees,” according to Chip Felkel, a
Republican strategist based in Greenville.

But just down the coast in Mace’s more upscale district, Trump outperformed
his approval ratings in 2020 — a sign, Felkel said, that there are “a lot of
people who like Trump’s policies but don’t like Trump.”

###  **3\. Speaking of which: Don’t break with the base on policy.**

Mace has been described as a moderate, but that’s a misnomer: She holds a 95
percent lifetime rating from the Club for Growth and a 94 percent score from
Heritage Action, two groups that gauge lawmakers’ fealty to conservative
principles. Rice scored 83 percent on both indexes — dangerous territory in
the deep-red Pee Dee region of South Carolina.

Although the Club for Growth stayed out of her race, Mace did benefit from
$160,000 in spending from Americans for Prosperity, another conservative
outside group funded by the Koch brothers. No national outside groups spent
money on Rice’s behalf.

Even minor heresies, like Mace’s support for legalizing marijuana, underscored
her carefully cultivated image as an independent thinker and gave her a useful
measure of distance from Trump.

“Nancy polished the ring; she didn’t kiss the ring,” Felkel said.

###  **4\. Run against a weak opponent.**

Russell Fry, the state representative who defeated Rice on Tuesday, was a
known quantity in the state who happily played the part of a generic pro-Trump
Republican.

Katie Arrington, a former state lawmaker and Pentagon official who won Trump’s
endorsement against Mace despite his private doubts about her candidacy, is
another story.

Voters certainly heard about the former president’s preference: At least 75
percent of voters in the district were aware that he had endorsed Arrington,
according to the Mace campaign’s internal polling.

Image

Russell Fry's election night event in Myrtle Beach, S.C. He happily played the
part of a generic pro-Trump Republican against Representative Tom Rice, who
voted in favor of impeachment.Credit...Jason Lee/The Sun News, via Associated
Press

But Mace and her allies pummeled Arrington with ads accusing her of voting to
raise gasoline taxes as a member of the state legislature, noting that her
security clearance had been suspended while she was a defense official in the
Trump administration and calling her “just as bad as Biden.”

Mulvaney, who campaigned for Mace, noted an additional factor: that Arrington
had lost the district to a Democrat in 2018.

“Trump doesn’t like losers, and that’s what Katie was,” Mulvaney said.

###  **5\. Get yourself a strong local surrogate.**

Although Arrington had Trump in her corner, Mace had the backing of Nikki
Haley, a popular two-term former governor of South Carolina and United Nations
ambassador under Trump who now lives in the district.

It proved enormously valuable. Like Mace, Haley has toed a careful line toward
Trump, criticizing him on occasion but never fundamentally breaking with her
former boss. She has an 82 percent approval rating among South Carolina
Republicans, according to a poll conducted in May, just a few points below
Trump.

Haley raised more than $400,000 for Mace and appeared at two of her campaign
rallies, in addition to recording get-out-the-vote videos and robocalls and
sending texts. She also cut a television ad calling Mace “a fighter,” a
“strong, pro-life mom” and a “tax-cutter” that ran for six weeks, airing 446
times in two ad markets. Mace’s campaign also mentioned Haley’s endorsement in
its closing TV spot.

Rice made the puzzling decision to invite Paul Ryan, the former House speaker,
to stump for him in the closing weeks of the campaign. Ryan, who tangled often
with Trump before quitting politics to join the board of Fox News and starting
a small think tank, hails from Janesville, Wis. — more than 800 miles from
Myrtle Beach.

Although Trump held telephone events for Arrington and brought her onstage at
his MAGA rally in Florence, a city in Rice’s district, he never showed up in
the Lowcountry.

“There’s always negatives with an endorsement,” said Terry Sullivan, a
longtime Republican strategist, who added that taking full advantage of the
potential upside of Trump’s imprimatur requires vigorous negotiation and
careful planning. “You’ve got to work to get the positives.”

Alyce McFadden contributed reporting.

Image

## What to read

  * After Tuesday’s primaries, the potential for far-right Republicans to reshape election systems in major battleground states ahead of 2024 is growing much closer to reality, with several nominees who deny the 2020 outcome now on the November ballot, Reid Epstein and Nick Corasaniti write.

  * A man who toured the Capitol complex with a Republican lawmaker the day before the Jan. 6, 2021, attack later marched on the building while making threats against Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other prominent Democrats, the House committee investigating the riot said. Luke Broadwater has the details.

  * The Supreme Court dismissed an appeal from several Republican-led states that had tried to step in to defend a Trump-era immigration policy that the Biden administration has abandoned.

Image

pulse

Image

Doug Mastriano with his wife, Rebecca Mastriano, at a rally in Lehighton, Pa.,
in May. A new poll showed him narrowly trailing Josh Shapiro, the Democratic
nominee for governor.Credit...Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images

## A dead heat in Pennsylvania

We might need to find a stronger word than “headwinds” to describe the
economic forces blowing against Democrats in the midterm elections this year.

## Understand the 2022 Midterm Elections

* * *

Card 1 of 6

 **Why are these midterm races so important? **This year’s races could tip the
balance of power in Congress to Republicans, hobbling President Biden’s agenda
for the second half of his term. They will also test former President Donald
J. Trump’s role as a G.O.P. kingmaker. Here’s what to know:

 **What are the midterm elections? **Midterms take place two years after a
presidential election, at the midpoint of a presidential term — hence the
name. This year, a lot of seats are up for grabs, including all 435 House
seats, 35 of the 100 Senate seats and 36 of 50 governorships.

 **What do the midterms mean for Biden? **With slim majorities in Congress,
Democrats have struggled to pass Mr. Biden’s agenda. Republican control of the
House or Senate would make the president’s legislative goals a near-
impossibility.

 **What are the races to watch? **Only a handful of seats will determine if
Democrats maintain control of the House over Republicans, and a single state
could shift power in the 50-50 Senate. Here are 10 races to watch in the House
and Senate, as well as several key governor’s contests.

 **When are the key races taking place? **The primary gauntlet is already
underway. Closely watched races in Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Georgia
were held in May, with more taking place through the summer. Primaries run
until September before the general election on Nov. 8.

 **Go deeper. **What is redistricting and how does it affect the midterm
elections? How does polling work? How do you register to vote? We’ve got more
answers to your pressing midterm questions here.

  *   *   *   *   *   * 

On Monday, the stock market fell by 3.9 percent, heralding a bear market, as
my colleagues explained in yesterday’s DealBook newsletter. That came as
investors braced for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, which it did
on Wednesday by a stunning three-quarters of a percentage point, the biggest
such move since 1994.

With inflation still rising at an 8.6 percent clip, it all sounds like a toxic
political brew for the party in power.

So it’s not a complete surprise that one of the country’s most closely watched
and potentially consequential governor’s races, in Pennsylvania, looks like a
dead heat.

A USA Today/Suffolk University poll out this morning shows the contest to be
within the margin of error. Attorney General Josh Shapiro, the Democratic
nominee, leads Doug Mastriano, a Republican state senator and retired Army
colonel, by 44 percent to 40.2 percent among likely general election voters,
with 12.8 percent undecided. The margin of error for the poll was plus or
minus 4.4 percentage points.

Yes, it’s just one survey. Polling averages are more reliable. But those
numbers are comparable, I’m told, to the Shapiro campaign’s internal polling.

Shapiro’s team fully expects a close race, but there’s an important dynamic
here to watch. Should the race remain close, national Republican groups have
signaled, they intend to spend money on Mastriano’s behalf. That could eat
into Shapiro’s overwhelming financial advantage and allow Republicans to
project a more mainstream image of their candidate than he presents himself.

Mastriano has taken some extreme positions. He favors a ban on abortion with
no exceptions for rape or incest, and has openly embraced the QAnon conspiracy
theory. And he has been a leading figure in Donald Trump’s drive to overturn
the results of the 2020 election — proudly promoting his presence at the
Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. The House panel investigating the Jan. 6 riot has
subpoenaed him.

On Monday, Mastriano named Jenna Ellis, a former lawyer for the Trump campaign
who was intimately involved in the effort to toss out Joe Biden’s victory, as
a senior legal adviser.

Then on Tuesday, NBC News reported that Mastriano had told an interviewer that
he saw “parallels” between the federal government’s prosecution of suspects in
the Jan. 6 riot and the Nazis’ use of the 1933 Reichstag fire to crack down on
dissent and seize unrestricted power in Germany.

Hitler analogies are rarely a good idea in American politics, and that
particular comparison is not one that historians are likely to find credible.
But with many voters experiencing serious economic distress, Mastriano’s poll
numbers ought to be sobering for Democrats all over the country.

Image

 **— Blake**

 _Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of?
We’d love to hear from you. Email us at_ _onpolitics@nytimes.com_ _._

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## Site Information Navigation

  * © 2022 The New York Times Company

  * NYTCo
  * Contact Us
  * Accessibility
  * Work with us
  * Advertise
  * T Brand Studio
  * Your Ad Choices
  * Privacy Policy
  * Terms of Service
  * Terms of Sale
  * Site Map
  * Canada
  * International
  * Help
  * Subscriptions

