Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 21, 20228:18 AM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Africa

# West Africa bloc deploys stabilizing force to Guinea-Bissau

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

1 minute read

![Ecowas court hearing on whether Nigeria's Twitter ban violated rights, in
Abuja](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/FTDTXBVVGNK4ROM6N5ELSNCWHI.jpg)

The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) court signage and logo
is pictured in Abuja, Nigeria February 16, 2022. REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

BISSAU, June 20 (Reuters) - West Africa's regional bloc, the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) deployed troops to Guinea-Bissau on
Monday to help stabilize the country after a failed coup earlier this year.

The 15-nation bloc announced in February that it would deploy the force, a few
days after President Umaru Sissoco Embalo survived what he called an
assassination attempt by drug traffickers.  read more

"We thank ECOWAS heads of state for their... solidarity at a time when Bissau
was grappling with upheavals linked to several attempts to subvert
constitutional and democratic order," Defence Minister Marciano Silva Barbeiro
said at an inauguration ceremony in the capital Bissau.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

The 631 troops will help local forces protect public officials, institutions
and civilians.

Guinea-Bissau has seen 10 coups or attempted coups since it gained
independence from Portugal in 1974.

The tiny former Portuguese colony on the coast of West Africa is known as a
major transit point for Latin American cocaine headed for Europe.

ECOWAS deployed a similar mission from 2012 to 2020 after another coup, to
help deter the military from intervening in politics and protect political
leaders.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Alberto Dabo; writing by Nellie Peyton; editing by Philippa
Fletcher

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Africa

  * Qatar's Emir arrives in Egypt in first official visit since boycott, article with imageMiddle East · June 25, 2022

Qatar's Emir arrived in Cairo on Friday on an official visit to meet Egypt's
President, Egyptian state TV reported, in the first trip to the country since
Cairo and Doha agreed last year to end a long-running regional feud.

  * BusinessSinovac's COVID-19 vaccine conditionally registered in South Africa, article with imageJune 25, 2022

  * AfricaZimbabwe healthcare workers temporarily call off wage strike, article with imageJune 25, 2022

  * AfricaLibyan leaders urged to agree on pathway to elections - U.S. State Dept, article with imageJune 24, 2022

  * AfricaSomali president tests positive for COVID-19, article with imageJune 24, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

