Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionMeloni is seeking to confirm her position as leader of the
rightwing alliance comprised of Matteo Salvini’s League and Silvio
Berlusconi’s Forza Italia. Photograph: Gabriele
Maricchiolo/NurPhoto/Rex/Shutterstock

Italy

# Brothers of Italy: once-fringe far-right party plots local elections success

Giorgia Meloni’s party hopes to gain ground as Italians go to polls to elect
mayors and councillors

Angela Giuffrida in Viterbo

Sun 12 Jun 2022 02.00 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

Just five years ago, Brothers of Italy, a party with neofascist origins,
barely scraped 4% of the vote. It now leads in opinion polls, and its leader
Giorgia Meloni’s rabble-rousing speeches have filled squares up and down Italy
before local elections beginning on Sunday.

Italians will elect mayors and councillors in roughly 1,000 towns and cities,
including Genoa, Palermo, Verona, Parma and a host of provincial capitals, in
a vote that will test the strength of political parties before national
elections next year.

Meloni is seeking to confirm her position as leader of a rightwing alliance,
comprising Matteo Salvini’s far-right League and Silvio Berlusconi’s Forza
Italia, that is poised to run in the 2023 ballot. If it wins, she could become
Italy’s first female prime minister.

Success of far-right Brothers of Italy raises fears of fascist revival

In the days before the local elections, which are being held across two
rounds, Meloni travelled to Viterbo, in the Lazio region, to close the
campaign of the Brothers of Italy mayoral candidate Laura Allegrini. The
medieval walled town is symbolic for the party: it is where Giorgio Almirante,
the founder of the neofascist Italian Social Movement (MSI), closed his
election campaigns, and where Meloni was elected president of the youth wing
of National Alliance, the party that emerged from MSI before morphing into
Brothers of Italy in 2004.

The 45-year-old’s speech to the crowd of about 1,000 people in Piazza del
Comune began with the championing of women. “We are the party against pink
quotas yet we are the only ones with the courage to put women in top
positions,” she said, before repeating her hardline positions on immigration
from Africa and adoption of children by same-sex couples, while making swipes
against the left and the government headed by the prime minister, Mario
Draghi, the former European Central Bank chief.

Those who had flocked to see her were a mix of young, old, ardent Brothers of
Italy supporters and those who admire Meloni but who are weighing up their
options, for the vote on Sunday and for the longer-term.

“Politics in Italy is broken, lots of talk but the results are the same,” said
Rita. “But Meloni has good ideas and is consistent in the things she says. Now
we need to see what she can do.”

Enza Calisti, who was waving a Brothers of Italy flag, was in no doubt: “She
is the only one who knows how to do politics, and is the most honest.” Simona
Mengoni said she admired Meloni for her courage. “She is not afraid to fight
for what she believes in. I like Salvini too, but I want Meloni to be prime
minister.”

Giorgia Meloni and Matteo Salvini in January. Photograph: Fabio
Cimaglia/Sintesi/Sipa/Rex/Shutterstock

Umberto Garbini, 28, had travelled to the rally from the nearby Umbrian town
of Orvieto, where he is a councillor for Brothers of Italy. “The party invests
in young people and welcomes those with new ideas who can bring added value.
These elections are important as the results will be like a mirror of what
could happen next year,” he said.

Meloni’s growing influence has caused intense competition with her coalition
partner Salvini, whose League party, which is part of Draghi’s broad alliance,
has been steadily declining in opinion surveys. The pair attempted to put on a
united front at a rally in Verona, where their parties are running together,
on Thursday night. “I guarantee that this is not the end of Romeo and Juliet,”
Meloni said.

Their warm embrace came a few days after Salvini, fearful of Brothers of Italy
gaining ground in the League’s northern territories, accused Meloni of
dividing the alliance by choosing to run alone in several municipalities.

Francesco Giubilei, the author of the book Giorgia Meloni: The Revolution of
the Conservatives, said: “These are only local elections but they are
important for several reasons. They are the main political event before
national elections, and several key cities and towns are involved. If Brothers
of Italy proves its support at the ballot box too, it will carry a heavier
weight in the coalition, even more so if it wins in the places where it is
running alone.”

Brothers of Italy was the only party that stayed out of Draghi’s government, a
position Meloni has used to her advantage while at the same time having
constructive dialogue with the prime minister amid Russia’s invasion of
Ukraine. She is pro-Nato and supportive of Italy sending arms to the war-torn
country – in contrast to the League – and of increased spending on defence.

In terms of the left, the Democratic party is slightly behind Brothers of
Italy in polls, but it is divided over forming coalitions with the waning Five
Star Movement. Still, the party is “the pillar of the system”, according to
Mattia Diletti, a politics professor at Rome’s Sapienza University, and even
though Meloni’s star is rising, a large portion of Italian voters will be
hoping for another broad alliance after the next general elections, whether
led by Draghi or not.

“Because of the international and economic situation, nobody wants a big
change,” Diletti said.

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Italy

  * Europe
  * The far right
  * news

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

