Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionAn English and maths GCSE will not guarantee future university
success. Photograph: David Davies/PA

Letter from a curious parent

# Dear Nadhim Zahawi, do you think curbs on university entrance will be
levelling up?

Michael Rosen

Even the DfE’s own assessment has found restricting access to loans would shut
out ethnic minority students

Sat 4 Jun 2022 02.30 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

When we look into the fish bowl of politics, it’s hard for us on the outside
to see where policy comes from. I read articles that describe new proposals
coming from the Department for Education, but have no real idea what this
means. We are told what “the DfE said …” and “the government’s intention”. I
might guess this involves you. But there is something foggy and mystifying in
the way education policies emerge anonymously and come blinking into the light
of day.

I was trying to decipher all this in relation to the idea to introduce minimum
GCSE grade requirements to qualify for a student loan to study at university.
One proposal is for a minimum grade in English and maths.

I’m glad to say that this has already received quite a bashing, from
university chiefs and others. Sir Peter Lampl, the executive chair of the
Sutton Trust education charity, said: “The introduction of any minimum grade
requirement is always going to have the biggest impact on the poorest young
people, as they are more likely to have lower grades because of the
disadvantages they have faced in their schooling.”

The Institute for Fiscal Studies found that restricting loans in this way
would have a disproportionate impact on ethnic minority students as well as
those who had received free school meals. These thoughts were echoed by the
NUS, the University Alliance and the Million Plus Group.

Even the DfE’s own equality impact assessment found that restricting access to
loans “would disproportionately affect students who are black and from ethnic
minority groups”.

Strangely, though, you weren’t mentioned in these articles, suggesting that
your not-so-cunning method is to sit on the sidelines watching the anonymous
authors of a proposal like this fly their kite. If all goes well, you step
into the studio lights, presenting us with a nicely polished policy as if it’s
another great achievement of this government. If it’s a duffer, you disown it
and claim it was only a draft document anyway.

Perhaps the rails are already being laid down for a backtrack, should it be
needed. Another anonymous DfE spokesperson is quoted as saying, “We have not
proposed to bar anyone from going to university: rather, we are starting a
conversation on minimum entry requirements …”

Excuse the smile on my face. Anyone with any memory of whatever has come from
the DfE in the past 30 years knows that it is rarely the opening lines of a
conversation. Instead, schools, teachers, parents and students have been
issued with diktat after diktat on everything from 10-year-olds having to
learn the subjunctive mood to creating bonanzas for academy bosses.

It will be interesting to see what you and these faceless people at the DfE do
with the wave of hostility that this plan has attracted. Your consultation
ended on 6 May. Will you listen or ignore?

Here is my own imperial two penn’orth. First, there is something immoral about
hitting people’s wallets as a way of making education policy. If you and your
department think minimum grades are such a great idea, why not make it an
entry requirement? Why introduce the ability to pay into the equation? It
smacks of making exceptions for rich kids. Levelling up? I don’t think so.

My other thought concerns the wishful idea that there must be a kind of litmus
test qualification that can predict success or failure further down the line.
For generations of us this was the “verbal reasoning” test that was part of
the 11-plus. In order to guarantee (some said fiddle) the predictability of
the test, we were put into ability streams before we sat the test and then
into different types of schools depending on our scores in the tests. Now here
we are again with a notion that having English and maths at GCSE will
guarantee that a student will get a degree. Or put it the other way, if they
don’t have those GCSEs they won’t last the course.

This is a shot below the bows at many young people who have aptitudes that
don’t fit the template of those two subjects. I’ve known students who are
highly capable at science, computing, maths and engineering but who struggle
with English. Similarly, I’ve known people (I’m one) who can cope extremely
well with the arts and humanities for whom maths is a hurdle. For the record,
I got a fail for my mock O-level maths and it was only the intervention of a
colleague of my dad, who set me work based on the maths textbooks he wrote,
that got me over the line – just.

Many people less privileged than me would have failed. Oh, hang on … that’s
what this policy is for, isn’t it?

 **Yours, Michael Rosen**

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Access to university
  * Letter from a curious parent

  * Exams
  * Universities
  * Nadhim Zahawi
  * GCSEs
  * Schools
  * Higher education
  * comment

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View commentsView on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

