#  POLITICO Politico Logo

  * Congress Minutes
  * Pro
  * E&E News
  * ****Search

****Search ****

## SECTIONS

  * Congress
  * White House
  * Magazine
  * The Agenda
  * Video
  * Podcasts
  * Congress Minutes 

## Elections

  * News
  * 2022 Election Forecast

## SERIES

  * The Fifty
  * The First 100 Days
  * Recovery Lab
  * The Vaccine Race
  * Women Rule

## The Exchange

  * Women Rule

## NEWSLETTERS

  * Playbook
  * Playbook PM
  * POLITICO Nightly
  * West Wing Playbook
  * The Recast
  * Huddle
  * All Newsletters

## POLITICO LIVE

  * Live Home
  * Upcoming Events
  * Previous Events
  * About POLITICO Live

## COLUMNS & CARTOONS

  * Rich Lowry
  * Jack Shafer
  * Matt Wuerker
  * Cartoon Carousel

## POLICY

  * Agriculture
  * Cannabis
  * Cybersecurity
  * Defense
  * Education
  * eHealth
  * Employment & Immigration
  * Energy & Environment
  * Finance & Tax
  * Health Care
  * Space
  * Sustainability
  * Technology
  * Trade
  * Transportation

## EDITIONS

  * California
  * Canada
  * Europe
  * Florida
  * New Jersey
  * New York
  * Pro

## Follow us

  * Twitter
  * Instagram
  * Facebook

  * My Account
  * Log In Log Out

campaigns

##  Mitch Daniels weighing return to politics

The former Indiana governor and Bush Cabinet member is thinking of running for
state office again after a decade in academia.

![Mitch Daniels speaks during a ceremony.
](https://www.politico.com/dims4/default/96a3363/2147483647/strip/true/crop/3300x2301+0+0/resize/630x439!/quality/90/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstatic.politico.com%2F43%2Ffe%2F6e956f18474ebcb03c7d9ff70e34%2Fhttps-
delivery.gettyimages.com%2Fdownloads%2F1166490174)

Former two-term Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, who came to the brink of
announcing a 2012 presidential bid in 2011 before backing out over family
concerns, announced last week that he would step down as president of Purdue
University. | Michael Hickey/Getty Images

By Adam Wren

06/17/2022 02:16 PM EDT

  *   *   *     * Link Copied

  *     *     *     * 

Mitch Daniels is eyeing a political encore.

The former two-term Indiana governor, who came to the brink of announcing a
2012 presidential bid in 2011 before backing out over family concerns,
announced last week that he would step down as president of Purdue University
at the end of this year after nearly a decade, shocking the campus.

Now, longtime loyalists and friends say the 73-year-old former director of
George W. Bush’s Office of Management and Budget is warming up to the idea of
a return to politics, batting around a potential third gubernatorial run in
the Hoosier state’s open 2024 contest. Current Gov. Eric Holcomb, a Daniels
ally and his handpicked party chairman during his administration, is term-
limited from running again.

“He’s fascinated by the idea,” Mark Lubbers, Daniels’ longtime confidante and
top political adviser early in his gubernatorial administration, told POLITICO
in an interview Thursday while on an annual golf trip with Daniels at The
Greenbrier resort in White Sulphur Springs, W.V. He said the two “discussed”
recent speculation in Indiana media that Daniels could mount a return to the
political stage after his turn in academia.

“We have NOT discussed policy or politics of a run,” Lubbers later added in a
text. “Suffice to say he would never do it unless he felt there were ambitious
policy objectives. You’ve heard him say before that he likes BIG ideas. He
would have no interest ever in running to just hold the seat again. Not his
style.”

Daniels did not return voicemail or text messages seeking confirmation. A
Purdue University spokesman declined to comment, citing Daniels’ vacation.

“Based in Lafayette” newsletter journalist Dave Bangert asked Daniels about
his prospects last week, and Daniels responded, “I don’t have any right now.”

If Daniels — who remains popular in the suburban counties that ring
Indianapolis and elsewhere across the state — did mount a run for governor, he
would face a Republican primary electorate here that has shifted right in
recent years, according to his former pollster Christine Matthews.

“The thing that has always been true about Mitch Daniels is that he has
approached public office as a chance to ‘do’ not to ‘be,’” said Matthews, who
is currently president of Bellwether Research. “And right now, voters are so
despondent that political leaders can’t seem to get things done that I think
his approach is one that would be very welcome.”

Matthews added that a Daniels return would face at least some challenges. “The
dynamics in Republican primary elections have changed a lot since 2004 and
that could be a concern,” she said. “However, he has the benefit of having
been governor for eight years and hopefully he will be able to navigate what a
primary electorate might be cued up to demand — such as complete fealty to
Donald Trump.”

Daniels took something of a vow of political silence when he took the reins of
Purdue, but at times has expressed unease with the direction of American
politics. “I don’t think [talking about politics] is appropriate,” Daniels
told Yahoo! News in a 2018 interview. “Let’s just say I have concerns about
the future of our whole political system,” he told Indianapolis Monthly in
2020.

But Daniels has maintained a column in The Washington Post in which he is not
afraid to tackle matters of politics, criticizing the Biden administration’s
regulatory policy, arguing for the confirmation of Biden’s OMB Director Neera
Tanden, and writing about the science of climate change.

Writerly and cerebral, Daniels has approached his tenure at Purdue University
as an experiment in reforming higher education, famously freezing tuition
there for 11 years and saving students $1 billion, according to the
university. Popular with a large swath of students, he teaches a class on
World War I and relishes writing and delivering an annual commencement address
in which he often discusses sociological trends and gives students advice. He
routinely works out in Purdue’s RecWell gymnasium, sometimes flashing his
biceps in a sleeveless shirt in photos students post to Instagram.

But he has also courted controversy at times, angering a coalition of Black
students for not more vocally embracing the Black Lives Matters movement. The
Instagram account Black at Purdue, which chronicles students’ experiences on
campus, gained 6,000 followers in the summer of 2020.

Should Daniels run for governor, he could also potentially face a crowded
Republican field. Lt. Gov. Suzanne Crouch has teased a possible primary bid.
Sen Mike Braun has said he will decide on a possible bid after the midterm
elections. Rep. Trey Hollingsworth, who recently retired from Congress, could
also run, a person close to him has said, as could Rep. Jim Banks. Former
State Sen. Jim Merritt is also weighing a run.

Lubbers said that the current field has left some in the Daniels wing of the
Indiana Republican Party underwhelmed, and talk among Daniels’ allies about
his return to politics began six months ago.

“It was an amazing eight years of accomplishment,” said Cam Savage, Daniels’
former campaign communications director. “And it’s really hard to replicate.
And there’s just a hunger for those days, that sort of style of leadership. No
knock on anybody else. But we’ve already proven that he can do it.”

Daniels downplayed speculation in 2016 that he would run for president. “Why
would I take the demotion?” he told the Lafayette Journal & Courier. “Sooner
or later, you’ll figure out that when I say these things, I mean them.”

In May 2011, he wrote his supporters a late-night message explaining his
decision not to seek his party’s presidential nomination. “What could have
been a complicated decision was in the end very simple: on matters affecting
us all, our family constitution gives a veto to the women’s caucus, and there
is no override provision. Simply put, I find myself caught between two duties.
I love my country; I love my family more.”

This time, Daniels’ wife, Cheri, is said to be on board, according to Lubbers.
“I was teasing her about it and, surprisingly, she was warm to the idea. I
think she had fun as First Lady and felt she did some good on women’s heart
health and promotion of the state fair.”

One person close to Daniels who asked not to be identified said that Daniels
is primarily contemplating a return to state politics, not national. “He
doesn’t want to go to Washington,” the person said. “Cheri doesn’t want to go.
Cheri is supportive here. That is a giant thing.”

Some supporters are urging him to run for mayor of Indianapolis, Lubbers said.
It would provide a storybook ending for a man who began his government service
as an administrative assistant in 1971 to then Indianapolis Mayor Dick Lugar,
whom he followed to the U.S. Senate as his chief of staff before working for
President Ronald Reagan as assistant to the president for political and
intergovernmental affairs. According to residency requirements, Daniels would
have to live in Indianapolis before the end of the year to qualify. Daniels
has long split his time between a residence in the northern suburb of Carmel
and Westwood, the 1932 English Tudor home where Purdue presidents
traditionally live.

“I can just tell you he’s nowhere near done,” Lubbers said. “He’s 73, and he’s
still doing as many push-ups as his age every morning.”

  * Filed under: 
  * Campaigns, 
  * Mitch Daniels, 
  * Indiana, 
  * Campaigns & Elections

******** POLITICO

  *   *   *     * Link Copied

  *     *     *     * 

  * About Us
  * Advertising
  * Breaking News Alerts
  * Careers
  * Credit Card Payments
  * Digital Edition
  * FAQ
  * Feedback
  * Headlines
  * Photos
  * POWERJobs
  * Press
  * Print Subscriptions
  * Request A Correction
  * Write For Us
  * RSS
  * Site Map

  * Terms of Service
  * Privacy Policy
  * Do not sell my info
  * Notice to California Residents

© 2022 POLITICO LLC

