Skip to main content

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-
yorker/assets/logo.f1893bac6dafe13d6d5bad671a5bee2345efa44d.svg)

  * Newsletter

Story Saved

To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories

Close Alert

Close

Sign In

Search

Search

  * News
  * Books & Culture
  * Fiction & Poetry
  * Humor & Cartoons
  * Magazine
  * Puzzles & Games
  * Video
  * Podcasts
  * Archive
  * Goings On
  * Shop

Open Navigation Menu

Menu

Story Saved

To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories

Close Alert

Close

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-yorker/assets/logo-
header.6e34c81346bc43475ffd572e6c2eb3e125927148.svg)

New Yorker Favorites

  * A Self-Induced Abortion
  * A Texas Teen’s Abortion Odyssey
  * The Marked Woman
  * Russia’s House of Shadows

Politics and More Podcast

# Dexter Filkins on the Rise of Ron DeSantis

![](https://media.newyorker.com/photos/59097b70ebe912338a37864e/1:1/w_270%2Cc_limit/remnick-
david.png)

With David Remnick

June 21, 2022

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Email

  * Print

  * Save Story

Save this story for later.

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Email

  * Print

  * Save Story

Save this story for later.

#### Content

This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.

 _Listen and subscribe:_ Apple | Spotify | Google | Wherever You Listen

 _Sign up_ _to receive our weekly newsletter of the best New Yorker podcasts._

* * *

![Governor Ron DeSantis gives a
briefing.](https://media.newyorker.com/photos/62b211ab1ee9a16321a71de2/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/Politics-
More-Ron.jpg)

Photograph by Eva Marie Uzcategui / Getty

Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has shown himself uniquely skilled at attracting
attention beyond the borders of his home state. Just this month, DeSantis
blocked state funds for the Tampa Bay Rays’ stadium after players voiced
support for gun control in the wake of the mass shooting in Uvalde, Texas.
He’s also continuing a fight to punish the Disney corporation for criticizing
Florida’s so-called “Don’t Say Gay” law. An Ivy League-educated anti-élitist
firebrand, he is willing to pick a fight with anyone—reporters, health
officials, teachers, Mickey Mouse—to grab a headline. DeSantis “practically
radiates ambition,” the staff writer Dexter Filkins tells David Remnick, in a
conversation that has been edited for length and clarity. “He sounds like
Trump, except that he speaks in complete sentences. . . . He’s very good at
staking out a position and pounding the table and saying, I’m not giving in to
the liberals in the Northeast.” Yet, despite having been anointed by Donald
Trump in his primary election, DeSantis has refused to “kiss the ring,” and
many see DeSantis as a possible opponent to Trump in a 2024 Republican
primary.

 **Remnick:** Dexter, right now we’re watching the January 6th hearings, and
at the same time Ron DeSantis, the governor of Florida, is making a lot of
noise as a politician. Is it very likely that he’s the No. 1 contender behind
Trump to inherit the mantle of the Republican Party?

 **Filkins:** Yes, I think so. All the polls suggest that, if Trump doesn’t
run, DeSantis is in pole position and he’s ready. He’s got more than a hundred
million dollars in the bank. He practically radiates ambition.

 **Remnick:** Let’s talk a little bit about his background. Who is Ron
DeSantis? Where does he come from? What kind of person is he?

 **Filkins:** He’s from Florida. He was born in Jacksonville; he grew up
outside of Tampa, in a town called Dunedin, and it’s a working-class
neighborhood. Working-class guy, went to public school. He was a great
baseball player in Little League, where they won the World Series, and in high
school. He went to Yale on a baseball scholarship and then on to Harvard Law
School. So he’s come a long way.

 **Remnick:** Did he distinguish himself academically at Yale and then Harvard
Law?

 **Filkins:** He did. In fact, one of the more funny quotes that I got from
one of his former classmates at Yale was that Ron was so smart that we
couldn’t plagiarize off of his papers because everyone would know where it
came from, because he’s the only one that smart who could have made that
argument.

 **Remnick:** He’s smart in what way?

 **Filkins:** More than a couple of people told me his memory is practically
photographic. Particularly, when I was having conversations about the
coronavirus, he was reading medical journals, and he’d read them once. He
would digest it, he would understand it and could have a conversation about
it. He’s very, very fast.

 **Remnick:** How would you describe Ron DeSantis ideologically, and how did
he become that way?

 **Filkins:** It’s hard to tell how much of Ron DeSantis is ideological and
how much is opportunism. He sounds like Trump, except that he speaks in
complete sentences. He’s very, very articulate and very, very quick, but he’s
competing for the same constituencies. He’s very, very angry at the élites,
even though he went to Harvard and Yale. He’s very angry at Washington. He’s
very angry at the politicians. He’s rallying basically the white working class
of Florida, of which the numbers are still quite large. He’s angry.

 **Remnick:** How did he become governor? My understanding is that although
he’s now seen as the dominant political figure in state politics—obviously
Trump himself is in Palm Beach—that DeSantis really kind of squeaked by to get
in.

 **Filkins:** He squeaked by. He did. I think he won by less than one per
cent. I think there was at least one automatic recount. He defeated a
politician named Andrew Gillum, who had been the mayor of Tallahassee. Very,
very close race. I think he benefitted from the fact that Gillum—not only was
he Black in a state within the former Confederacy but also because Gillum came
from the left of the Party. Gillum had squeaked in and had beaten a moderate
to get the nomination, against Gwen Graham, who many people believed would’ve
fared much better against DeSantis. DeSantis won just by a hair, but he’s been
a missile going straight up ever since.

 **Remnick:** What do you mean?

 **Filkins:** He has developed a style, which is very visible, very
theatrical, again very angry, but it has made him a national politician. Over
the last couple of years, he really built himself and his persona—I hate to
use the word “brand,” but it’s a brand—around the way that he dealt with the
coronavirus. Essentially, it played in perfectly for him and his style because
he could say, “I don’t agree with Fauci and all the pinheads in Washington.
All they want to do is oppress you and make you wear masks and keep your
children at home.” He charted this very, very novel course on the coronavirus.
That’s what made him famous.

 **Remnick:** Now, the _COVID_ policy that you describe is not just sheer
obstinate ignorance—we’ve seen some of that in political quarters in the last
few years—but something a little bit more complicated.

 **Filkins:** I had a long conversation with a professor at Stanford, of
public health, an epidemiologist named Jay Bhattacharya, who said he was
sitting at home one day on a Sunday and his phone rang and it was Ron
DeSantis. He wanted to talk about the coronavirus. Bhattacharya, very much
like DeSantis, was charting a slightly different course. Basically—I’m going
to make this a little crude, but it’s essentially—masking doesn’t really work.
The only thing you can really do is protect the elderly, which DeSantis did
from the get-go. Protect the elderly, and basically try to ride the virus out
until a vaccine comes, but don’t kid yourself. There’s not that much that we
can do about it. What followed from that, naturally, was: keep the schools
open, keep the government offices open, keep the beaches open, keep the
shopping malls open. That’s what Florida did. Very, very different from, say,
New York or California.

 **Remnick:** And how are its statistics?

 **Filkins:** That’s very, very interesting. They went up and down and up and
down, and he caught a lot of hell over the course of the pandemic. But today,
in 2022, the numbers aren’t bad. Florida is in the middle when you look at
death rates. It’s pretty much in the middle of the pack, right next to
California. California shut down their entire economy, all their schools, for
two years. Florida kept everything open. So, he’s looking better than he did.

 **Remnick:** Now, another issue that’s been crucial to his presence on the
national scene is L.G.B.T.Q. issues and how they’re taught in schools.
DeSantis has been out front on that. He passed a law a couple of months ago,
called the Parental Rights in Education or the so-called Don’t Say Gay law,
where he supported it. What’s the deal there? Tell me what happened and what
role DeSantis plays there.

 **Filkins:** I think, again, DeSantis has become a master at picking these
issues that get everyone excited.

 **Remnick:** Hot-button cultural issues.

 **Filkins:** Super hot-button, yes. He’s very, very good at staking out a
position and pounding the table and saying, “I’m not giving in to the liberals
in the Northeast.”

 **Remnick:** One of the stunning things about this episode is that DeSantis
goes to war against a huge company in the state—against Disney.

 **Filkins:** It’s remarkable. He appears not to have suffered for it
politically—not yet.

 **Remnick:** So describe the fight—and what was the outcome?

 **Filkins:** They hate it when you say “the Don’t Say Gay law,” but that’s
how everybody understands it now, so I’m going to use that. The legislature
passes the law. He signs it. Disney’s response, initially, in Orlando Disney
World, is tepid. Many employees at Disney World got angry at their C.E.O. and
said, “This isn’t enough. We hate this.” So then the C.E.O. came forward and
condemned DeSantis and condemned the law. Then DeSantis basically went after
Disney. Disney, since it was built in the late nineteen-sixties, basically
governs itself. If there’s a fire at Disney World, Disney World has to put out
the fire.

 **Remnick:** And they have special accommodations in some ways.

 **Filkins:** Yes. Very. They govern themselves, essentially. They are left
alone. DeSantis just took that and threatened to zero out the entire special
district for Disney World, which would be an upheaval in that part of the
state—not least among the local governments that suddenly would have to put
out the fires in Disney World. Taxes would go up. It would be an upheaval. He
threatened to do it, and Disney got quiet. Not completely, but DeSantis didn’t
suffer for it, and it’s just remarkable. When you talk to ordinary—say,
ordinary voters, or his supporters—that’s what they love about him. They would
say, “Any other politician would’ve caved in to Disney, would’ve backed down
and said, ‘I’m so sorry’—and not Ron.”

 **Remnick:** What’s the purpose of the law in the first place?

 **Filkins:** I hate to speculate as to his motives, but it made a lot of
headlines, all across the country—and, I think, just the kind of headlines
that he wants to make.

 **Remnick:** Which are what?

 **Filkins:** Which is when you see him speak, he says, “I’m anti-woke. I’m
anti-élites. I’m against the press. I’m against the pinhead politicians in
Washington.” He can position himself very much as a kind of anti-élitist. He
doesn’t really need to do all that in Florida to win. He’s got that
constituency locked up.

 **Remnick:** So it’s all national politics?

 **Filkins:** That’s what it seems like. I think every person I talked to who
knows him says this is a deeply ambitious man. He’s had his eyes on the White
House since he was in college, and every job he had was basically a stepping
stone to the next one.

 **Remnick:** You knocked on a lot of doors in the state of Florida in pursuit
of a really deep piece on Ron DeSantis. One of the doors you knocked on was on
the door of the father of Ron DeSantis. Describe that encounter.

 **Filkins:** Well, I had just come from the _CPAC_ conference, in Orlando,
where Ron, Jr., spoke, pounding the table. I thought—

 **Remnick:** It’s the Conservative Political Action Committee?

 **Filkins:** Yes, it’s the big gathering. I drove to Dunedin, the little town
where they still live. I looked up his address. He was there. I pulled over
into a McDonald’s and put a white shirt on and long pants. I went with
absolutely no expectation of success. I went and knocked on the door.

 **Remnick:** As we learned to do, as young reporters, many years ago.

 **Filkins:** You think, There’s no way he’s going to come out and talk to me.
He probably won’t even be there. And, lo and behold, he did. He was wearing an
F.S.U. T-shirt, looked like he hadn’t shaved in a couple of days. Barefoot,
shorts. Nicest guy in the world. Absolutely really nice. Didn’t really want to
talk to me at first, said I’m a little suspicious. I’ll be frank with you.
Then we had a really nice talk about his son.

 **Remnick:** How did he characterize him?

 **Filkins:** He said more than once—he said, “Ron is stubborn.” He told a
very funny story about him, which was, “Ron’s a very good baseball player. My
gosh, I must have thrown a half-million pitches to him when he was young,
right out there in the front yard. I think he only swung at five hundred of
them.” [ _Laughter._ ]

 **Remnick:** He likes to walk. In terms of character, the guy you describe
here is not exactly a winning personality in the standard sense. There’s a
moment that you describe in the piece where DeSantis is sparring with a CNN
reporter named Rosa Flores over the vaccine rollout in Florida.

>  **DeSantis:** You’re repeating your question.
>
>  **Flores:** To complete it for you, Governor, we’ve seen Web sites crash,
> and also senior citizens waiting overnight for the vaccine.
>
>  **DeSantis:** Where was that at?
>
>  **Flores:** We’ve seen it in Duval, Broward, Orange, and Lee County.
>
>  **DeSantis:** Why was—like, in Lee? Why did that happen? Did you
> investigate why?
>
>  **Flores:** That’s my question to you, Governor. You’re the governor of the
> state. I’m not the governor of the state.
>
>  **DeSantis:** O.K., but you didn’t investigate why in Lee county, why there
> was a big line? Did you investigate why?
>
>  **Flores:** Could you tell us why?
>
>  **DeSantis:** Because we distributed vaccines to hospitals, and the
> hospital said, “First come, first served. If you show up, we’ll do it.” They
> didn’t use a registration system. There wasn’t anything that was done. And
> there’s a lot of demand for it. So people are going to want to go ahead and
> get it.
>
>  **Flores:** Are you saying there was no plan, then, from the state, to make
> sure that senior citizens didn’t wait outside overnight?
>
>  **DeSantis:** So the state is not dictating to hospitals, we’re not
> dictating to Carlos Migoya how he runs his operations here. That would be a
> total disaster. These guys are much more competent to be able to deliver
> health-care services than a state government.

 **Remnick:** God, that’s amazing. What struck you about that moment, Dex?

 **Filkins:** Well, he won’t let up. It just goes on and on and on and on. He
keeps interrupting her, and he will not let her finish, and he will not let
her ask the question, and he doesn’t stop. He must have interrupted her
fifteen times. I think the key to that is: he knows he’s not going to get CNN.
He doesn’t care about CNN. What does he care about? He cares about a typical
Trump voter watching that on TV, saying, “Man, beat up the CNN reporter. This
is great. Stick it to them.” I think he’s got that down to a science.

 **Remnick:** Fox has had a huge role in DeSantis’s ascent. You did a public-
records request and got a lot of e-mails between Fox News and DeSantis’s
office. What’d you learn from those e-mails?

 **Filkins:** It’s pretty amazing. It’s basically a symbiotic relationship.
DeSantis needs Fox to become a national figure; Fox needs somebody to replace
Trump; they kind of find each other. Over the course of the e-mails, they’re
each suggesting programs to the other. They’re practically writing the
questions for each other. They’re saying, “God, that was great. We should make
you a host of our show.” It is so close that the traditional idea of
journalism—which is journalists keep their distance from politicians—that’s
all gone.

 **Remnick:** Not so much. What’s been the impact of his appearances on Fox?
Is it quantifiable?

 **Filkins:** I think so. It’s quantifiable in the polls—he’s now far ahead of
any of the potential Republican nominees for the Presidential election, with
the exception of Trump. There is some speculation that he may actually run
against Trump, if Trump doesn’t drop out.

 **Remnick:** What’s that relationship like?

 **Filkins:** The most positive characterization I got of it was that it was
complicated. They have a complicated relationship.

 **Remnick:** In English, that means they hate each other.

 **Filkins:** I think so. As I was told, Trump believes with some
justification that he created DeSantis. He endorsed him during the primary,
and DeSantis, who had been far behind, just took off and won the nomination. I
think former President Trump expects a little bit of deference and a little
bit more gratitude than he’s been getting from DeSantis. As somebody put it to
me, “Ron refuses to kiss his ring.”

 **Remnick:** Or anything else. If you had to pick one moment or one scene in
the Governor’s career that exemplifies his political stature—his importance,
the way he comports himself—what might it be?

 **Filkins:** I think it would be actually the moment with the CNN reporter.
That’s it in a nutshell.

 **Remnick:** What about the scene where he yelled at a kid? Remember this?

 **Filkins:** That’s a remarkable scene. He was going to Tampa to announce, I
think, greater funding for cybersecurity education. He gets up on the podium
and there’s a line of kids behind him—college kids—and they’ve all got masks
on. DeSantis turns to them without cracking a smile. There’s no irony. And he
says, “Take your masks off.” He talks about, “I’ve had enough _COVID_
theatre.” He’s angry. He’s actually angry at these kids. You can hear nervous
laughter in the background, like people are, like, “Wow, is the Governor
joking?” And, when it becomes clear that he’s not joking, some of the kids
take their masks off; they don’t know what to do.

 **Remnick:** This is a winning strategy?

 **Filkins:** That’s the thing. You have to ask yourself.

 **Remnick:** Yelling at kids?

 **Filkins:** You have to ask yourself, “How many angry candidates have been
elected President of the United States?” I can think of one.

 **Remnick:** Dexter, thank you.

 **Filkins:** Thanks, David.

 **Remnick:** Staff writer Dexter Filkins. His Profile of Florida Governor Ron
DeSantis appears in this week’s _New Yorker_.

## New Yorker Favorites

  * When abortion is criminalized, women make desperate choices.

  * Of course the Constitution has nothing to say about abortion.

  * The study that debunks most anti-abortion arguments.

  * How the idea of Hell has reshaped the way we think.

  * A prized daughter of the Westboro Baptist Church came to question its beliefs.

  * Is Ginni Thomas a threat to the Supreme Court?

Sign up for our daily newsletter to receive the best stories from _The New
Yorker_.

More:PodcastsRon DeSantisTrumpismRepublican PrimaryRepublicans (G.O.P.)

### Podcasts

Never miss a podcast episode again! Subscribe to our newsletter for a weekly
roundup of the latest _New Yorker_ podcasts.

E-mail address

Sign up

By signing up, you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy & Cookie
Statement.

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-yorker/assets/logo-
reverse.f915b516b6ca9c0c2a9bdf9b749519365b2b2e4a.svg)

Sections

  * News
  * Books & Culture
  * Fiction & Poetry
  * Humor & Cartoons
  * Magazine
  * Crossword
  * Video
  * Podcasts
  * Archive
  * Goings On

More

  * Customer Care
  * Shop The New Yorker
  * Buy Covers and Cartoons
  * Condé Nast Store
  * Digital Access
  * Newsletters
  * Jigsaw Puzzle
  * RSS
  * Site Map

  * About
  * Careers
  * Contact
  * F.A.Q.
  * Media Kit
  * Press
  * Accessibility Help
  * Condé Nast Spotlight

© 2022 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and
Your California Privacy Rights. _The New Yorker_ may earn a portion of sales
from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate
Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced,
distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior
written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Snapchat

  * YouTube

  * Instagram

Do Not Sell My Personal Info

