Sections

SEARCH

Skip to contentSkip to site index

U.S.

Log in

Today’s Paper

U.S.|A Vanishing Word in Abortion Debate: ‘Women’

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/08/us/women-gender-aclu-abortion.html

  * Give this article

  *   *   * 1815

### Supreme Court Overturns Roe v. Wade

  * liveUpdates
  * Read the Decision
  * How Roe Fell
  * Tracking State Abortion Laws
  * Your Questions, Answered

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Supported by

Continue reading the main story

# A Vanishing Word in Abortion Debate: ‘Women’

Progressive groups and medical organizations have adopted inclusive language,
which has led to terms like “pregnant people” and “chestfeeding.”

  *  **Send any friend a story**

As a subscriber, you have **10 gift articles** to give each month. Anyone can
read what you share.

Give this article

  *   *   * 1815

  * Read in app

![From the medical organizations to younger activists, the word “women” has in
a matter of a few years nearly gone missing in talk of abortion and
pregnancy.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/06/02/us/00pregnant-
people-1/merlin_156699216_3061a3e6-d341-4f5d-81a4-c635113ef1cc-
articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

From the medical organizations to younger activists, the word “women” has in a
matter of a few years nearly gone missing in talk of abortion and
pregnancy.Credit...Scott Olson/Getty Images

![Michael
Powell](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-michael-
powell/author-michael-powell-thumbLarge-v3.png)

By Michael Powell

June 8, 2022

Leer en español

The American Civil Liberties Union, whose advocacy on reproductive rights is
of more than a half-century vintage, recently tweeted its alarm about the
precarious state of legal abortion:

“Abortion bans disproportionately harm: Black Indigenous and other people of
color. The L.G.B.T.Q. community. Immigrants. Young people. Those working to
make ends meet. People with disabilities. Protecting abortion access is an
urgent matter of racial and economic justice.”

This tweet encompassed so much and so many and yet neglected to mention a
relevant demographic: women.

This was not an oversight, nor was it peculiar to the language favored by the
A.C.L.U. Language has been changing fast, even as the Supreme Court appears
poised to overturn a constitutional guarantee to abortion rights and
progressives face the task of spearheading opposition.

From Planned Parenthood to NARAL Pro-Choice America to the American Medical
Association to city and state health departments and younger activists, the
word “women” has in a matter of a few years appeared far less in talk of
abortion and pregnancy.

Driven by allies and activists for transgender people, medical, government and
progressive organizations have adopted gender-neutral language that draws few
distinctions between women and transgender men, as well as those who reject
those identities altogether.

This speed of change is evident: In 2020, NARAL issued a guide to activists on
abortion that stressed they should talk about a “woman’s choice.” Two years
later, the same guide emphasized the need for “gender-neutral language.”

Last year, the editor of The Lancet, a British medical journal, apologized for
a cover that referred to “bodies with vaginas” rather than women.

Today, “pregnant people” and “birthing people” have elbowed aside “pregnant
women.”

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has a section on “Care for
Breastfeeding People,” the governor of New York issued guidance on partners
accompanying “birthing people” during Covid, and city and some state health
departments offer “people who are pregnant” advice on “chestfeeding.”

The Cleveland Clinic, a well-known nonprofit hospital, posed a question on its
website: “Who has a vagina?” Its answer begins, “People who are assigned
female at birth (AFAB) have vaginas.” The American Cancer Society website
recommends cancer screenings for “people with a cervix.”

This reflects a desire by medical professionals to find a language that does
not exclude and gives comfort to those who give birth and identify as
nonbinary or transgender. No agency appears to collect data on transgender and
nonbinary pregnancies, but Australia has reported that about 0.1 percent of
all births involve transgender men.

Ti-Grace Atkinson got on the phone from her home in Cambridge, Mass., and
sighed. She has counted herself a radical feminist for most of her 83 years.
She quit the National Organization for Women in the 1960s when it refused to
aggressively push for abortion rights.

She is wearied by battles over gender and language, which she said are pushed
by transgender activists and eager progressives and no less eagerly opposed by
right-wing politicians. It is distant from the urgent needs of women, who make
up 50.8 percent of the population.

“I want to see material change,” she said. “Taking away our reproductive
rights is going to sharpen the battle. This is about women and our rights;
it’s not a language game.”

## Live Updates: Supreme Court Overturns Roe v. Wade

Updated

June 26, 2022, 1:03 p.m. ET

  * California looks to enshrine abortion rights in state constitution.
  * South Dakota’s large population of Native American women are especially affected.
  * As states ban abortion, demand for birth control and abortion pills is rising.

Last year, Dr. Sara Dahlen wrote an editorial for a British medical journal in
which she noted the pressure for clinicians in Britain, where questions of
gender are no less charged, to use phrases such as “human milk” rather than
“breast milk.” She cautioned they risked losing a larger audience.

“If the aim is to maximize respect for every person’s sense of self, it must
follow that female patients who simply understand themselves as women cannot
either be expected to ‘go along silently with language in which they do not
exist,’” she wrote, quoting advocates of gender-neutral language.

For those who fight in the trenches of reproductive politics, the surprise is
that a turn to gender-neutral language surprises. Louise Melling, a deputy
legal director for the A.C.L.U., noted that not long ago male pronouns and
terms such as “mankind” were considered sufficient to cover all women.
Language is a powerful instrument, she said, and helps to determine political
consciousness.

“Language evolves and it can exclude or it can include,” Ms. Melling noted in
an interview. “It’s really important to me that we think about pregnant
people. It’s the truth: Not only women give birth, not only women seek
abortion.”

NARAL punctuated this point in a tweet last year defending its use of
“birthing people”: “We use gender neutral language when talking about
pregnancy, because it’s not just cis-gender women that can get pregnant and
give birth.”

Feminists such as Ms. Atkinson and the writer J.K. Rowling have been outspoken
in stating that women have a right to their spaces — locker rooms, domestic
abuse shelters, prisons — that are separate from men and transgender women.

These and other pointed criticisms angered transgender activists and their
allies, who denounced them as transphobes. Some object as well to the language
of the abortion rights movement, which talks of a “war on women.” “It’s really
difficult,” a transgender activist wrote, “to be present in a movement that is
so incredibly cissexist.”

In New York City, the progressive Working Families Party and Democratic
Socialists of America are political powers. When Politico obtained a draft
opinion that indicated the Supreme Court was primed to overturn Roe v. Wade,
which provides a constitutional right to abortion, these parties issued
ringing denunciations — in studiously gender-neutral language.

The world of mainstream Democratic politics gives voice to these sentiments in
a more familiar argot, one aimed at voters rather than activists.

Last year the Biden administration put out budget documents that reflected the
gendered discourse of progressives and referred to “birthing people.”
Conservatives pounced.

But this month, when word leaked of a potential Supreme Court turnabout,
President Biden was unequivocal and practiced in his language choices. “I
believe that a woman’s right to choose is fundamental,” he said. “Basic
fairness and the stability of our law demand that it not be overturned.”

A few left-leaning congressional representatives have adopted movement
language. Representative Cori Bush, Democrat of Missouri, testified last year
about “birthing people.” But it is far more common to hear senators and
congressional representatives, female and male alike, refer to women. “We
cannot go back to the days when women had to risk their lives to end an
unwanted pregnancy,” said Senator Bernie Sanders, a democratic socialist who
represents Vermont.

Prof. Laurel Elder of Hartwick College and Prof. Steven Greene of North
Carolina State University have studied the growth of feminist identity by age
and education. Many young activists, Professor Elder noted, reject male and
female distinctions altogether. “But,” she said, “the reality is that the
larger society is not there yet.”

Professor Greene questioned the wisdom of activists in insisting that a mass-
based movement discard its base and core sexual identity. Why not, for
instance, insist that women and transgender men are each embattled when it
comes to abortion?

“Activists are adopting symbols and language that are off-putting not just to
the right but to people in the center and even liberals,” he noted.

For this reason he was not surprised when most Democratic politicians declined
to echo the language of progressive organizations. “You don’t become a
candidate for the presidency or speaker of the House by being dumb about what
works in politics,” he said. “Democrats were not going to be afraid to use the
word ‘women.’”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## Site Information Navigation

  * © 2022 The New York Times Company

  * NYTCo
  * Contact Us
  * Accessibility
  * Work with us
  * Advertise
  * T Brand Studio
  * Your Ad Choices
  * Privacy Policy
  * Terms of Service
  * Terms of Sale
  * Site Map
  * Canada
  * International
  * Help
  * Subscriptions

