Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionGlenda Jackson: ‘I’ve been very lucky in the parts I’ve had the
opportunity to do’ Photograph: Sarah Lee/The Guardian

The reader interview

# Glenda Jackson answers your questions: ‘I think that’s a gross insult about
politicians and actors, frankly’

The groundbreaking actor and politician answers your questions about the
difficulties of Ken Russell, the joys of Morecambe & Wise and whether she
sends Tony Blair a Christmas card

As told to Rich Pelley

Thu 16 Jun 2022 07.16 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

 **With a career like yours, people assume success must have come quickly.
Were there times when you struggled to find work as an actor?** _galactichero_

Oh, absolutely. I had left school and was working for Boots, and joined an
amateur group in my home town. Someone suggested I go to drama school and, as
I’d got bored with working in a shop, I thought: “Oh right, I’ll have a go.”
And I got a place. With the help of one of the managers from Boots, I got
funding to go to Rada [the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art] from Cheshire county
council. After I left drama school, I got a job immediately, doing two or
three plays in rep at Worthing and then Crewe.

Then I had almost three years with no job at all. Mind you, I did a wide
variety of other jobs. By that time I was married and we were living in Swiss
Cottage [London], so I did anything I could get that earned me a bit of money.
I worked in shops. I had an office job – I got fired from that, can’t think
why. I’ve been very lucky in the parts I’ve had the opportunity to do, and the
people I’ve worked with. When the job is over, I have always firmly believed
that I would never work again and that sensation doesn’t go away.

 **All the world’s a stage and political actors are some of the most
untalented thespians out there. How** **does an accomplished, intelligent,
worldly-wise woma** **n such as you cope with them?** _acwinterburn_

I think that’s a gross insult about politicians and actors, frankly.

 **You cavorted naked in a railway carriage in** **1971** **’s The Music
Lovers** **, and were** **a transport** **minister under Tony Blair.** **Did
the first role help prepare for the second?** _cavecanem_

No. Not at all. I remember filming that scene distinctly. The railway carriage
set was rocked backwards and forwards, and luggage fell out of the racks on
top of me. I can still hear [director] Ken [Russell] saying: “Oh, she’s fine.
She’s not bruised. Come on, get her up.” There were about three separate minor
accidents, all of which were treated not as doing harm to me, but a delay to
the actual making of the film.

 **Glenda, which is most fake – Tinseltown or parliament?** _Micktrick_

Neither of them are games. They are both for real. In a way, that’s a
compliment to actors and politicians as well as being an insult.

‘I have huge admiration for her’ … Jackson (left) and Vanessa Redgrave in
Mary, Queen of Scots Photograph: Everett Collection/Alamy

 **How was your relationship withVanessa Redgrave during the making of
****Mary, Queen of Scots** **? Was there an element of professional rivalry
and does it enhance a performance when you play antagonists like Mary and
Elizabeth?** _Wallace85_

We actually had very few scenes together, which was a big disappointment
because I had – and still do have – huge admiration for her. But her political
view was entirely different to mine. So when she made various suggestions, I
found all that somewhat … well, I wouldn’t say difficult, but of course it was
a privilege to work with her.

 **Your breakthrough in 1969’s Women in Love dramatised a society where
traditional gender roles and expectations were breaking down…** _wifinomad_

I don’t think in essence, when you’re talking to a woman in this profession,
that is true. And the age cutoff for women still tends to be somewhat young.
As this has been my experience my entire life, I won’t say that I’ve become
inured to it. It’s something that one expects and unfortunately our
expectations are usually met.

Jackson when she was MP for Hampstead and Highgate with Labour leader Tony
Blair in 1997, a few months before he was elected prime minister. Photograph:
Sean Dempsey/PA

 **What made you want to get into politics?** _mrblancmange_

I’d been doing a fair bit, while still acting, for the Labour party. There had
been a couple of requests asking me to stand. We’d had Thatcher, so I said
yes, never thinking I would actually be elected. I honestly don’t know if I
would have done anything differently because it’s something you learn while
you’re having to do it. I think it’s marvellous that there are more female
faces these days. They are all much younger now than when I was first elected
in 1992. But don’t get me started on what I think about the present
government, please.

 **Considering how Brexit has changed politics in the UK, how does the current
culture in parliament compare** **to when you were an MP?** _IscoBusquet_

Oh, it has changed dramatically, because the electorate itself has changed
dramatically. The view of what is acceptable as far as politics is concerned
has become much more individually realised. Experiences on an individual level
have engaged far more people than when I first had the right to vote. I think
there is a genuine realisation of what it is to be a human being in political
terms. And that’s a great advance.

 **Do you send Tony Blair a Christmas card?** _FowerCloud_

I wouldn’t send him anything!

‘What a treat to work with those two!’ Jackson with Eric Morecambe (seated)
and Ernie Wise. Photograph: Phillip Jackson/ANL/Shutterstock

 **It’s never Christmas until I’ve seen the Morecambe** **and Wise Cleopatra
sketch. Was it as much fun to do as it still is to watch? Do you prefer
playing straight/classical drama or comedy?** _Mattyjj and JFBridge_

I mean, what a treat to work with those two because they were so professional;
they worked so hard and expected you to do the same. It was just a privilege.
Do I have any particular memories? My own difficulty not laughing during the
takes. Comedy is much harder. Making people laugh is very hard to do well.

 **What is the most disgraceful thing you can now own up to?** _BustaBates_

The most disgraceful thing? I’m a bit spoilt for choice there!

 **Eileen Atkins** **lost out to you in an audition for [theatre director]**
**Peter Brook** **. She tells the story in her 2021 autobiography** **Will She
Do?** **of Brook asking you both to take your clothes off, your doing so
immediately and Atkins thinking she’d misheard, and Brook then saying: “That**
_ ****_**is why I’m taking Glenda instead of you. You tend to question things
and I want obedience.”** _ ****_**Should student actors today be trained for
obedience?** _thesighman_

I have no recollection of that happening. But I was always obedient to
instructions. I accept that totally. If it was a director you trusted or you
really needed the job, you’d do whatever was asked of you – up to a limit.

 **Are there any directors you’d like to have worked with, but didn’t?**
_Hooplehead1967_

I’m pretty sure there were. But my memory of films goes back a long way – way
before I began to work myself. So don’t ask me to name them because I can’t
think of them.

 **Do you support a football team?** _Davidhuse_

No. Well, I suppose I do really. I was born in Birkenhead. Whenever I’m asked
if I support a football team, I always say … what’s the team out of
Birkenhead? Tranmere Rovers. When did I last go to a Tranmere Rovers game?
I’ve never seen them play. Where are they in the league? No idea whatsoever.
Do I know what colour they play in? No.

Jackson and Oliver Reed in Women in Love. Photograph: Pictorial Press
Ltd/Alamy

 **What was it like working with Oliver Reed?** _navvee_

I don’t think it was a great meeting of minds. Even though he was sometimes
difficult, that never intervened in the work. You were never quite sure how he
would be, physically. But even when he’d have too much to drink, he was always
very professional when it came to actually doing the takes.

 **In which career do you think you did the most lasting good: politics or
acting?** _davidabsalom_

How could you define that? I was re-elected – 23 years in parliament? Looking
back at my films, some did really surprisingly well, and some that I thought
were really remarkable didn’t do so well. So perhaps that’s just my lack of
taste.

 **Would you describe yourself as happy and purpose-driven, and if so, what is
the secret to your happiness and vitality?** _IgnacioJReilly_

You tell me!

 **During your time in Westminster, did you ever see a play or a movie and
think: “That’s such a great part, I wish I could play it?”** _CraigR_

You know, I don’t think I ever went to the theatre or the cinema during the
whole time I was a member of parliament. I’m sure I must have seen films on
the telly, but I have no memory of going to a cinema and certainly not a
theatre, because you worked such long hours. Do I go to the theatre and cinema
now? No. There’s a difference between going to the theatre to be entertained
and actually working in it. What do I think about the upcoming Glenda Jackson
series at the BFI? I’m amazed there are so many films! What happens if I’m
watching telly and one of my old films comes on? Well, they tend to do shows
my old films rather late in the evening. So I’m probably in bed and hopefully
asleep.

• Glenda Jackson: The Art of Conviction is at BFI Southbank, London, from 2-31
July. Mary, Queen of Scots is released on BFI Blu-ray 11 July.

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Film
  * The reader interview

  * Glenda Jackson
  * Ken Russell
  * Morecambe and Wise
  * Vanessa Redgrave
  * Labour
  * interviews

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View commentsView on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

