Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Search
icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, "Click to perform a search".

Insider logo The word "Insider".

Stay Updated

Insider logo The word "Insider".

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Subscribe  Subscribe

  * Business The word Business
  * Life The word Life
  * News The word News
  * Reviews The word Reviews

  * Business 
    * Tech
    * Finance
    * Markets
    * Strategy
    * Retail
    * Advertising
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
  * Life 
    * Entertainment
    * Culture
    * Travel
    * Food
    * Health
    * Parenting
    * Beauty
    * Style
  * News 
    * Politics
    * Military & Defense
    * Sports
    * Opinion
  * Reviews 
    * Tech
    * Streaming
    * Home
    * Kitchen
    * Style
    * Beauty
    * Gifts
    * Deals
    * Pets
    * Parenting
    * Coupons
    * Health
    * Learning
    * Hobbies & Crafts
    * Travel
  * All 
    * A-Z
    * Advertising
    * Business
    * Careers
    * Coupons
      * DoorDash
      * Walmart
      * Dell
      * Staples
      * Under Armour
    * Culture
    * Design
    * Entertainment
    * Executive Lifestyle
    * Finance
    * Food
    * Health
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
    * Latest
    * Life
    * Markets Insider
    * Media
    * Military & Defense
    * News
    * Opinion
    * People
    * Personal Finance
      * Banking
      * Credit Cards
      * Insurance
      * Investing
      * Loans
      * Mortgages
    * Politics
    * Premium
    * Retail
    * Reviews
    * Science
    * Sports
    * Strategy
    * Tech
    * Transportation
    * Travel
    * TV
      * Beauty Explorers
      * Best in Town
      * Bonkers Closets
      * Festival Foodies
      * Movies Insider
      * Pop Culture Decoded
      * The Making Of
      * The Ultimate List
    * Featured
    * Better Capitalism
    * Cities Connected
    * Insider TV
    * Master Your Money
    * Next Stop
    * Sustainable Finance
    * Transforming Business
    * About
    * About
    * Advertise
    * Careers
    * Contact Us
    * Corporate
    * Corrections Policy
    * Follow
    * RSS
    * Sitemap
    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Instagram
    * YouTube
    * LinkedIn
    * Subscriptions
    * Intelligence
    * Premium

US Markets Loading... H M S In the news

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous
/ next navigation options. HOMEPAGE

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Subscribe  Subscribe

Home  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes
previous / next navigation options. Politics

# Lauren Boebert receives cheers at a Christian center after saying she prays
that Biden's 'days be few and another take his office'

Katie Balevic

2022-06-12T13:59:50Z

Save Article Icon A bookmark Facebook Icon The letter F. Email icon An
envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.

Share icon An curved arrow pointing right.

Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. Twitter LinkedIn
icon The word "in". LinkedIn Fliboard icon A stylized letter F. Flipboard Link
icon An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url. Copy Link

Download the app

![United States Representative Lauren Boebert \(Republican of Colorado\)
questions Office of Management and Budget Director Shalanda Young during a
House Committee on the Budget hearing The Presidents Fiscal Year 2023 Budget
in the Canon House Office Building in Washington, DC, March 29,
2022.](https://i.insider.com/62a5ea3e6053710019e9dce1?width=700)

Rep. Lauren Boebert questions Office of Management and Budget Director
Shalanda Young during a House Committee on the Budget hearing in Washington,
DC, March 29, 2022.  Rod Lamkey/Getty Images

  * Colorado Rep. Lauren Boebert joked about praying for President Joe Biden's demise. 
  * Boebert made the comments to a cheering crowd while speaking at a Christian event in Colorado Springs. 
  * Boebert was touted as a speaker at the event who had "proven God's Word" alongside several pastors. 

Sign up for our newsletter to receive our top stories based on your reading
preferences â€” delivered daily to your inbox.

Loading Something is loading.

Email address

By clicking â€˜Sign upâ€™, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as
well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy
Policy.

Colorado Rep. Lauren Boebert received cheers and applause when quipped that
she prays for President Joe Biden's demise while speaking at a Christian
event.

Boebert made the comments during a weekend event called the Family Camp
Meeting at Charis Christian Center in Colorado Springs, which included a
series of pastors and speakers "who have proven God's Word," according to the
center's website.

A video of Boebert making the comment has circulated on social media.

"I do want you to know that I pray for our President. Psalm 109:8 says, 'May
his days be few and another take his office.' Hallelujah! Glory to God,"
Boebert said with a laugh as the crowd clapped and cheered.

> â€”PatriotTakes ðŸ‡ºðŸ‡¸ (@patriottakes) June 11, 2022

The Charis Christian Center did not immediately respond to a request for
comment on Sunday, nor did representatives for Boebert, who is currently under
investigation for claims that she misused campaign funds.

The infamous psalm has been used in the realm of politics before. In 2016,
former Georgia Sen. David Perdue directed the verse at former President Barack
Obama while the Senator spoke at the Faith and Freedom Coalition's Road to
Majority conference.

"In his role as president, I think we should pray for Barack Obama. But I
think we need to be very specific about how we pray. We should pray like
Psalms 109:8 says. It says, 'Let his days be few, and let another have his
office,'" Perdue said at the time.

![A picture of a switch and lightbulb](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/shared/light-switch.png)

Sign up for notifications from Insider! Stay up to date with what you want to
know.

Subscribe to push notifications

Deal icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

Keep reading

###  NOW WATCH:

More: Joe Biden Lauren Boebert Christian Colorado

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Recommended Video

![Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/Insider-
logo-dark-opt.svg)

![Business Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/US/logos/BI-logo-dark-opt.svg)

Follow us on:

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/facebook.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/twitter.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/linkedin.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/youtube.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/instagram.svg)

![Download on the App Store](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/app-store-badge.svg)

![Get it on Google Play](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/google-play-badge.svg)

  * * Copyright Â© 2022 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
  * Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy and  Cookies Policy . 

  * Contact Us
  * Sitemap
  * Disclaimer
  * Accessibility
  * Commerce Policy
  * Advertising Policies
  * CA Privacy Rights
  * Coupons
  * Made in NYC
  * Jobs

  * Stock quotes by finanzen.net
  * Reprints & Permissions

  * International Editions:
  * United States US
  * International INTL
  * Asia AS
  * Deutschland & Ã–sterreich AT
  * Deutschland DE
  * EspaÃ±a ES
  * India IN
  * Japan JP
  * MÃ©xico MX
  * Netherlands NL
  * Polska PL
  * South Africa ZA

![Insider.com TM Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-com-trademark-opt.svg)

![Insider-Inc Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-inc.svg)

![Business Insider DE Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/DE/logos/BI-DE-Black-on-Light-final-footer-logo-opt.svg)

