Skip to main content

Open Navigation Menu

Menu

Story Saved

To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.

Close Alert

Close

![WIRED](/verso/static/wired/assets/logo-
header.a7598835a549cb7d5ce024ef0710935927a034f9.svg)

How Marginalized Workers Can Make the Most of Remote Work

  * Backchannel
  * Business
  * Culture
  * Gear
  * Ideas
  * Science
  * Security

More _Chevron_

Story Saved

To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.

Close Alert

Close

Sign In

Search

Search

  * Backchannel
  * Business
  * Culture
  * Gear
  * Ideas
  * Science
  * Security

  * Podcasts
  * Video
  * Artificial Intelligence
  * Climate
  * Games
  * Newsletters
  * Magazine
  * Events
  * Wired Insider
  * Coupons

Alan Henry

Ideas

Jun 7, 2022 7:00 AM

# How Marginalized Workers Can Make the Most of Remote Work

Whether you’re hybrid or at the home office full-time, here’s what you can do
to focus your energy, connect meaningfully, and use flexibility to your
advantage.

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Email

  * Save Story

To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.

![Photo collage of people working from home people on a video call and a
message
notification](https://media.wired.com/photos/629ea7fa4610cecb6f2d86c4/master/w_2560%2Cc_limit/How%2520Marginalized%2520Workers%2520Can%2520Make%2520the%2520Most%2520of%2520Remote%2520Work.jpg)

Photo-illustration: WIRED; Getty Images

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Email

  * Save Story

To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.

 _This story is adapted from_ Seen, Heard, and Paid: The New Work Rules for
the Marginalized _, by Alan Henry._

So much of what marginalized people go through at work comes down to the
workplace environment: how people in the office get along with one another,
who asks whom out for lunch, who gets along with whom, and so on.
Unfortunately, even if you’re objectively the most skilled and the most
experienced person on your team, if you’re being marginalized because of your
race, your gender, or your disability status, there’s nothing you can do to
keep the cliquishness of that culture from seeping into your work and
preventing you from doing your best.

![Seen Heard  Paid book
cover](https://media.wired.com/photos/629e4e64a768b037a2992150/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/Seen-
Heard-Paid-Cover-Alan-Henry-Ideas.jpg)

Courtesy of Rodale Books

**Buy This Book At:**

  * Amazon
  * Bookshop.org
  * Target

 _If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission.
This helps support our journalism._ _Learn more_ _._

But in the early months of 2020, much of that changed. Many of us suddenly
went from working in offices all the time and having to navigate the politics
of being seen, being a superstar, and making a show of ourselves and our work
around others, to working at home, quietly, behind a screen, and only being
seen by others for Zoom meetings and conference calls that were prescheduled.
The pandemic threw a wrench into office cultures around the world, and some
companies have permanently given up their office space. Others have used this
moment to drastically rethink remote and hybrid work possibilities. The bright
spot of this tragedy may be that there is a little more empathy for the
worker. Or at least a little more flexibility.

When I felt at my lowest as the Smarter Living editor at _The New York Times_
, I loved my work, but I had a hard time doing it. Some of that was my own
shyness and difficulty advocating for myself, but some of it was the very
closed-off, cliquish nature of a few of the teams I worked with. So I rather
enjoyed the flexibility of being able to do my work from home, listening to
music if I chose to, and using a computer that was far more powerful and
flexible than the laptop I had been issued at work (and one with a way bigger
screen). What’s more, I had a more comfortable desk and chair and all the
other personal touches I had already put into my workspace at home—something
many of my colleagues had to scramble to do when the pandemic set in and they
were suddenly forced to set up home office spaces where none existed before.

I enjoyed the peace and quiet, because here’s the thing about being a
marginalized person, even if you’re going into the office: You feel that you
need to be there to be seen—to be recognized as a member of the team or even
as someone present, available, and willing to collaborate and help out on all
the things you’re being excluded from—but you also hate it. You hate being
there, being seen, and going _just to be seen_. Those feelings come with a
level of paranoia about what’s going on behind your back when you’re there
_and_ when you’re not there, the meetings that could be happening right now
but that you weren’t invited to, and the anxiety of wondering how you’re
perceived when you’re present and also when you’re not.

Working remotely can alleviate this anxiety a bit. Not entirely, and it has
its drawbacks, but there are ways to use remote work to your advantage as a
marginalized worker. After all, when the currency of being present and being
the loudest person in the room is diminished by the fact that everyone’s
remote, you have a unique opportunity to shine. And the same is true if you’re
on a hybrid-style team, where some people are in the office and others aren’t.
Hybrid-style teams can give rise to some misunderstandings and communication
breakdowns, but even so, there are moves you can make in silence to protect
yourself.

Melanie Pinola, a senior writer at _Consumer Reports_ , is a veteran of remote
work. Before her current gig, she was at Wirecutter, the product review site
owned by _The New York Times_. I’ve worked with Pinola in some form or fashion
since both of us were writers at _Lifehacker_ in 2011, and I was lucky enough
to work with her again eight years later when she started at Wirecutter and I
was its liaison to _The New York Times_ newsroom. She’s been working remotely
for various employers since 1998, “as a telecommuter for a small marketing
agency for over a dozen years, as a freelance writer working on remote teams
like _Lifehacker_ for five years, as part of the fully remote tech company
Zapier for three years, finally at Wirecutter for almost two years now. So, a
long time,” she says.

Not that it takes more than 20 years of remote working experience to
understand exactly how difficult it is to work remotely as a person of color
or as a marginalized person in the workplace, but Pinola definitely has all
the above. “I think remote work’s emphasis on text-based communication (e.g.,
Slack and email) is great—no one is focusing on what I look or sound like,
even though there are still clues, like my profile photo and my name,” Pinola
explains. “I feel less self-conscious, though, and more free to speak up,
stripped of the physical cues to my age and race (and, if I changed my name,
my gender).”

It’s not all good news, though. After all, the social baggage that
marginalized groups carry doesn’t go away just because your colleagues can’t
see you all the time. Even if they only see you in Zoom meetings, it doesn’t
change their social conditioning (at best) or their prejudices (at worst). “It
also depends on how the company and the people within it handle communicating
remotely,” Pinola continued. “In my experience, there are some managers who,
after switching to remote or being unfamiliar with remote work, insist on
having more video meetings, and everyone having their cameras on during those
meetings, negating those benefits. Also, if a company is only partially
remote, it can be alienating for people who aren’t in the office and aren’t
getting that face time that management seems to love—conversations and
decisions happen in the office without them. That’s not a diversity thing per
se, but people with disabilities, people who are juggling work and parenthood,
or those who have other reasons to want to work remotely can be at a
disadvantage if the culture isn’t truly remote-friendly.”

People who have the option to work remotely and take it also have to deal with
office cultures that don’t always support the decision to work remotely. I
continue to hope that the Covid-19 pandemic and the lessons we learn from it
will smooth over those cracks and difficulties a bit, but we’ll see. Even if
the problems of remote work do improve somehow, the benefits will probably
come to marginalized people last.

In the meantime, there are things marginalized workers can do to improve their
experiences of working remotely. First of all, use the time away from your
usual team and your usual colleagues to foster relationships with other people
that you actually _do_ want to work with. If you have a problematic colleague
that keeps you marginalized, or keeps excluding you from meetings and
projects, working from home gives you an opportunity to avoid that person and
instead put your energy into organizing cross-department projects that advance
your career. Instead of spending time in Zoom meetings holding your tongue
because you know someone will steal your idea, instead send an email to your
work friend on a different team—or better yet, that team’s manager, in case
they have openings they can fill internally and are looking for good
candidates.

Another important thing to do when you’re working remotely, especially if
you’re a member of a marginalized group, is to make time for a one-on-one with
your manager. I know, no one really likes those meetings, including your
manager (take it from me!), but they’re the only times you can get regular
feedback from them on what you need to be working on and how they can help
prioritize your work and give you the tools you need to thrive. If you’re like
me and allergic to meetings, make it every other week, and don’t let your boss
slip out of it: You need time to connect, especially if you don’t get to see
each other and catch up often.

Finally, use every opportunity to relax, take breaks, and recharge when you
work remotely. I’m a proponent of afternoon naps, but even if you don’t have
that luxury, make note of the times of day you feel most productive and the
times of day you feel like you’re dragging along. When you start to drag,
don’t try to power through it, you’ll just wind up doing subpar work that
you’ll have to correct later. Instead, take a break, go for a walk around the
block or a quick drive to get a cup of coffee. Grab your laptop and sit in the
window instead of at your desk. Change the scenery. Do small things to help
you recharge, and then turn those small things into rituals that will give you
some solace during the day. If anything, we all need more of that right now.

* * *

 _Adapted from_ Seen, Heard, and Paid, _copyright © 2022 by Alan Henry. Used
by permission of_ _Rodale Books, an imprint of the Crown Publishing Group, a
division of Penguin Random House LLC, New York._ _All rights reserved. No part
of this excerpt may be reproduced or reprinted without permission in writing
from the publisher._

## More Great WIRED Stories

  * 📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters!

  * The endless limbo of Hong Kong's street protesters

  * A novelist and an AI cowrote your next cringe-read

  * What do “cookie preferences” pop-ups really mean?

  * Become a Telegram master with these tricks

  * How “thinkwashing” keeps people from taking action

  * 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database

  * ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers

![](https://media.wired.com/photos/5f907b93ba670daaf8e97950/1:1/w_270%2Cc_limit/Alan-
Henry.jpg)

Alan Henry is the senior editor for service at WIRED in New York City. He was
previously Smarter Living editor at The New York Times and editor in chief of
Lifehacker. He has written and edited stories about productivity and
technology for over a decade. He is also the author... Read more

Senior Editor

  * Twitter

  * Instagram

TopicsBook ExcerptBooksremote workdiversityfuture of work

![WIRED](/verso/static/wired/assets/logo-
reverse.548f3a7478ee71f618044082aa222dd05f31249c.svg)

WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information
and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED
conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our
lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and
innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and
new industries.

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Pinterest

  * YouTube

  * Instagram

  * Tiktok

More From WIRED

  * Subscribe
  * Newsletters
  * FAQ
  * Wired Staff
  * Press Center
  * Coupons
  * Editorial Standards

Contact

  * Advertise
  * Contact Us
  * Customer Care
  * Jobs

  * RSS
  * Site Map
  * Accessibility Help
  * Condé Nast Store
  * Condé Nast Spotlight
  * Do Not Sell My Personal Info

© 2022 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and
Your California Privacy Rights. _Wired_ may earn a portion of sales from
products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate
Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced,
distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior
written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices

