Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

May 31, 202210:07 AM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Middle East

# Factbox: Lebanon's veteran parliamentary speaker Nabih Berri

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

3 minute read

![Lebanese Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri heads a parliamentary session at
UNESCO Palace in Beirut](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/2NKJHSSVDZOR7BR4GBHGUGFXJE.jpg)

Lebanese Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri heads a parliamentary session at
UNESCO Palace in Beirut, Lebanon October 28, 2021. REUTERS/Aziz Taher/File
Photo

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

BEIRUT, May 31 (Reuters) - Lebanese Shi'ite Muslim politician Nabih Berri was
reelected parliament speaker on Tuesday, extending his tenure in a post he has
held since 1992.  read more

Here is some background on his career:

## CIVIL WAR

Berri, 84, has been head of the Shi'ite Amal Movement since 1980. Throughout
Lebanon's 1975-90 civil war, he led Amal through battles with many of the
conflict's other main parties. He rose to international prominence in 1985
when he helped negotiate the release of 39 Americans held hostage in Beirut by
Shi'ite militants who hijacked a TWA airliner.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

## HEZBOLLAH ALLY

He emerged from the war as one of Lebanon's most powerful leaders, his
influence underpinned by close ties to Damascus - which dominated Beirut from
1990 to 2005 - and to the heavily armed, Iran-backed Shi'ite group Hezbollah.

Berri has moved in political lockstep with Hezbollah for years and supports
its possession of arms. Amal and Hezbollah dominate Shi'ite representation in
Lebanon's sectarian system, in which state posts are divided among
confessional groups.

## CLOUT IN FINANCIAL SYSTEM

He has exercised significant influence over the financial policies of a state
in economic crisis since 2019 - the result of decades of state corruption and
mismanagement. His right-hand-man Ali Hassan Khalil was finance minister from
2014 until 2020, and Berri had a decisive say over the choice of Khalil's two
successors since then.

Berri supported Lebanon's decision to default on its sovereign debt in 2020,
and has backed veteran central bank governor Riad Salameh, who has come under
fire over the crisis.

Amal was one of several factions that torpedoed a financial recovery plan
drawn up by government in 2020. Its ministers also voted against the cabinet's
recovery roadmap in May 2022, although it passed.

## SUPPORT AND OPPOSITION

His supporters in the Shi'ite community credit him with helping to improve
their standing in a system that had been skewed in favour of other groups
after independence in 1943.

But along with other Lebanese leaders, Berri was a focal point of protester
anger during unprecedented, nationwide demonstrations in 2019, reflecting
widespread outrage at corruption, sectarianism and bad governance.

## NO SUCCESSOR

Born in 1938 in Sierra Leone to an emigrant merchant family from south
Lebanon, he was raised in Lebanon and was active in politics by the time he
was in university. He divorced his first wife, Laila, during the war and his
second wife, Randa, became a public figure. He has had 10 children in total,
but has broken with Lebanon's tradition of dynastic politics by not appointing
any of them as his political successor.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Writing by Tom Perry; Editing by Maya Gebeily and Raissa Kasolowsky

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Middle East

  * Qatar's Emir arrives in Egypt in first official visit since boycott, article with imageMiddle East · June 25, 2022

Qatar's Emir arrived in Cairo on Friday on an official visit to meet Egypt's
President, Egyptian state TV reported, in the first trip to the country since
Cairo and Doha agreed last year to end a long-running regional feud.

  * BusinessOPEC and allies set to hold two meetings next week, OPEC website, article with imageJune 24, 2022

  * Middle EastSanctioned Russian's superyacht docked in Dubai, article with imageJune 24, 2022

  * Middle EastSaudi Arabia to invest $3.4 bln in vaccine, biomedical drugs sector, article with imageJune 24, 2022

  * Middle EastQatar's Emir heads to Cairo to meet Egypt's President, article with imageJune 24, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

