Skip to Content

Summer Sale

Get The Star Phoenix and National Post for only $50 per year. Get The Star
Phoenix and National Post for only $50 per year. Subscribe now>

Manage Print Subscription

Sections

Search  Search thestarphoenix.com

Perform search

The Star Phoenix

Share

![Close](https://dcs-
static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/common-icon/icon-close-
black.svg)

##  Share this Story: Young Innovators: Social program investments affect
disease incidence rates: U of S research

  * Copy Link
  * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-circle-email.svg) Email
  * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-fb.svg) Facebook
  * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tw.svg) Twitter
  * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-rdit.svg) Reddit
  * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-pin.svg) Pinterest
  * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-li.svg) LinkedIn
  * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tblr.svg) Tumblr

Subscribe

User My Account

Subscribe

Search thestarphoenix.com

Perform search

  * News
    * Local News
      * COVID-19
    * Saskatchewan
    * Politics
    * National
      * COVID-19
    * PostPandemic
    * World
    * Videos
    * Weather
    * Archives
  * Send a Letter to the Editor
  * Business
    * Local Business
      * Open during COVID
      * Featured Businesses
    * Energy
    * Mining
    * Mortgages
    * Money
    * Real Estate
      * First-Time Homebuyers
    * Technology
      * Gaming
      * Internet
      * Personal Tech
      * Science
      * Space
      * Tech-Biz
    * FP Markets
    * Small Business
    * Saskatchewan's Top Employers
    * MoneyWise Canada
      * Borrowing Money
      * Future Money
      * Growing Money
    * The Logic
    * Potash in our province
  * True Crime
  * Opinion
    * Editorials
    * Columnists
    * Letters
  * Sports
    * Sports Betting
    * Local Sports
      * U of S Huskies
      * Saskatoon Hilltops
    * Hockey
      * NHL
      * Saskatoon Blades
    * Football
      * CFL
      * Saskatchewan Roughriders
      * NFL
    * Baseball
    * Basketball
      * NBA
      * NCAA
    * Golf
      * Golf Videos
    * Soccer
      * International Soccer
      * MLS
    * MMA
    * Curling
    * Tennis
    * Auto Racing
  * Arts
    * Local Arts
    * Movies
    * Television
      * TV Listings
    * Music
    * Books
    * Celebrity
  * Life
    * Shopping Essentials
      * Home Living
      * Style & Beauty
      * Kitchen & Dining
      * Personal Care
      * Entertainment & Hobbies
      * Gift Guide
    * Fashion & Beauty
    * Homes
      * Buying & Selling
      * Condos
      * Decorating
      * Gardening
      * Renovating
      * Vacation Homes
      * Living Spaces
    * Food
      * Local Food Reviews
      * Recipes
    * Travel
    * Royals
    * Bridges
    * Festivals
    * Health
      * Healthing
      * Diet & Fitness
      * Family & Child
      * Men
      * Women
      * Seniors
      * Sexual Health
      * Parenting
      * Relationships
    * Puzzles
    * New York Times Crossword
    * Comics
    * Advice
    * Horoscopes
    * Contests
      * National Contests
    * Special Sections
      * Eat Play Stay Saskatchewan
  * Remembering
    * Place an Obituary
    * Place an In Memoriam
  * Classifieds
    * Place an Ad
    * Business Card Directory
    * Celebrations
    * Real Estate Marketplace
    * Working
    * Shopping
    * This Week's Flyers
    * Auction
  * Driving
    * All Driving
    * News
    * Reviews
    * Car Comparison
    * Buyer’s Guide
  * Healthing
  * The GrowthOp
  * Podcasts
  * Newsletters
  * ePaper
  * Subscribe
    * Our Offers
    * My Account
    * FAQ

  * Profile
  * Settings
  * Manage Print Subscription / Tax Receipt
  * Manage My Subscriptions
  * Manage My Newsletters
  * Customer Service
  * FAQ
  * Sign Out 

  * News
  * Send a Letter to the Editor
  * Business
  * True Crime
  * Opinion
  * Sports
  * Arts
  * Life
  * Remembering
  * Driving
  * Healthing
  * The GrowthOp
  * Podcasts
  * Newsletters
  * ePaper

## Advertisement 1

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

  * ![Share via email](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-circle-email.svg)
  * ![Facebook](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-fb.svg)
  * ![Twitter](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tw.svg)
  * ![Share on Linkedin](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-li.svg)
  * ![Open more share options](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-circle-share.svg)

![Close](https://dcs-
static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/common-icon/icon-close-
black.svg)

##  Share this Story: Young Innovators: Social program investments affect
disease incidence rates: U of S research

    * Copy Link
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-circle-email.svg) Email
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-fb.svg) Facebook
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tw.svg) Twitter
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-rdit.svg) Reddit
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-pin.svg) Pinterest
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-li.svg) LinkedIn
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tblr.svg) Tumblr

## Breadcrumb Trail Links

  1. Local News

#  Young Innovators: Social program investments affect disease incidence
rates: U of S research

“On average, decreases in countries’ measles infections are associated with
increases in measles vaccinations and social spending.”

Author of the article:

Brooke Kleiboer

Publishing date:

Jun 07, 2022 • June 7, 2022 • 3 minute read •  Join the conversation

![University of Saskatchewan PhD graduate, Dr. Mary Ellen
Walker.](https://smartcdn.gprod.postmedia.digital/thestarphoenix/wp-
content/uploads/2022/05/0606-news-young-innovators-walker-
featureimage_270375339-w-j.jpg?quality=90&strip=all&w=288&h=216) University of
Saskatchewan PhD graduate, Dr. Mary Ellen Walker. Photo by Laurent
Peignault/Unsplash /Submitted photo

## Article content

How much does a country’s investment in social programs, such as parental
leave and employment insurance, influence rates of disease such as measles in
a population? The answer is:Quite significantly.

## Advertisement 2

Story continues below

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

## Article content

We apologize, but this video has failed to load.

Try refreshing your browser, or  
tap here to see other videos from our team.

#####  Young Innovators: Social program investments affect disease incidence
rates: U of S research Back to video

![Close sticky video](https://dcs-
static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/common-icon/icon-close-
black.svg)

During her nursing doctorate program at the University of Saskatchewan, Mary
Ellen Walker set out to find how government-funded social supports, such as
old age pension, unemployment benefits, sick leave and parental leave, can
affect the rates of infectious diseases.

Other relevant factors include vaccination rates, income and education levels,
politics, wealth and the country’s location.

“I became interested in this kind of research after travelling to other places
and questioning how socioeconomic conditions influence health,” said Walker,
who earned her PhD in 2021 from the U of S College of Nursing.

Walker’s research found that measles immunization and government spending on
social programs were key players associated with measles infection rates.

“On average, decreases in countries’ measles infections are associated with
increases in measles vaccinations and social spending,” said Walker. “In fact,
these two variables work together to decrease measles infections.”

In fact, greater levels of social program spending are linked to lower levels
of measles infections at the national level.

Future research could explore if factors such as welfare programs, parental
leave offerings and the types of unemployment benefits offered to citizens by
their government influence their decisions to receive vaccinations, preventing
further outbreaks.

Another interesting finding was that lower rates of measles infections were
related to higher levels of wealth in the country.

## Advertisement 3

Story continues below

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

## Article content

The work is unique in that it used research methods relatively new to nursing.
Walker used geographical information systems to understand and explore
statistics related to disease incidence rates in different locations and
related these statistics to public policy in the region.

More than just statistical facts about disease incidence rates, Walker’s
research examines how national policy decisions can influence health, as well
as a nation’s ability to implement preventive interventions for disease
control.

“(My work) helps to deepen the understanding of how policies that address
poverty, vulnerability and social exclusion influence the health of the
overall population,” she said.

The results of the study were published in the Global Journal of Health
Science and the Scandinavian Journal of Public Health in 2021. Walker also had
the opportunity to travel to San Diego, California, to share her preliminary
results at the American Public Health Association Conference in 2018.

The project was supervised by June Anonson from the College of Nursing and
Michael Szafron from the U of S School of Public Health.

Walker currently works as a diabetes nurse clinician for the Saskatchewan
Health Authority and as a statistician for the Department of Anthesiology at
the U of S College of Medicine. She hopes to continue to develop her skills as
both a nurse and a researcher in these roles.

The research was supported by the U of S and the Canadian Nurses Foundation.

## Advertisement 4

Story continues below

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

## Article content

_This content runs through a partnership between the Saskatoon StarPhoenix and
the University of Saskatchewan._

##  More On This Topic

  1. ###  Young Innovators: U of S researcher discovers novel chemical signal used by the body to regulate water 

  2. ###  Young Innovators: Wheat byproducts in pig feed may reduce greenhouse gas emissions: U of S research 

_The news seems to be flying at us faster all the time. From COVID-19 updates
to politics and crime and everything in between, it can be hard to keep up.
With that in mind, the Saskatoon StarPhoenix has created an **Afternoon
Headlines** newsletter that can be delivered daily to your inbox to help make
sure you are up to date with the most vital news of the day. Click here to
subscribe._

## Share this article in your social network

  * ![Share via email](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-circle-email.svg)
  * ![Facebook](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-fb.svg)
  * ![Twitter](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tw.svg)
  * ![Share on Linkedin](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-li.svg)
  * ![Open more share options](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-circle-share.svg)

![Close](https://dcs-
static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/common-icon/icon-close-
black.svg)

##  Share this Story: Young Innovators: Social program investments affect
disease incidence rates: U of S research

    * Copy Link
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-circle-email.svg) Email
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-fb.svg) Facebook
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tw.svg) Twitter
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-rdit.svg) Reddit
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-pin.svg) Pinterest
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-li.svg) LinkedIn
    * ![](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tblr.svg) Tumblr

##  Latest National Stories

## Advertisement 1

Story continues below

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

![The StarPhoenix Headline News logo](https://dcs-
static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/newsletters/logo/newsletter-
envelope.svg)

## Saskatoon StarPhoenix Afternoon Headlines

We deliver the local news you need in these turbulent times on weekdays at 3
p.m.

Email Address

  * There was an error, please provide a valid email address. 

Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above
newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by
clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia
Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300

### Thanks for signing up!

A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk
folder.

The next issue of Saskatoon StarPhoenix Afternoon Headlines will soon be in
your inbox.

We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

##  Trending

  1. ###  Tank: Charter fantasies unmasked in Saskatchewan pandemic court case

  2. ###  Canola crusher planned for Saskatchewan suspended

  3. ###  'I couldn't be prouder': Valkyries cap off unbeaten season with championship celebration

  4. ###  Tank: Saskatoon city hall's $280,000 janitor will resonate for a while

  5. ###  Health and safety: Saskatoon police called to hospitals less often during pandemic

##  This Week in Flyers

### Comments

Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion
and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may
take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to
keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email
notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your
comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you
follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and
details on how to adjust your email settings.

Subscribe

## Categories

  * News
  * Send a Letter to the Editor
  * Business
  * True Crime
  * Opinion
  * Sports
  * Arts
  * E-Paper
  * Subscribe 

* * *

## Follow The Star Phoenix

  * ![Visit our Facebook page \(Leaving The Star Phoenix\)](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-fb.svg)
  * ![Visit our Twitter page \(Leaving The Star Phoenix\)](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-tw.svg)
  * ![Visit our YouTube page \(Leaving The Star Phoenix\)](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-yt.svg)
  * ![Visit our Instagram page \(Leaving The Star Phoenix\)](https://dcs-static.gstage.postmedia.digital/10.7.1/websites/images/share-icons/icon-soc-ig.svg)

* * *

## Secondary Links

  * Advertise With Us 
  * Digital Ad Registry 
  * Site Map 
  * Contact 
  * Privacy - Updated 
  * Terms of Use 
  * Copyright 
  * My Account 

365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4

© 2022 The Star Phoenix, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights
reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly
prohibited.

## Notice for the Postmedia Network

This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and
allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing
to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

OK

