Sections

SEARCH

Skip to contentSkip to site index

Log in

Today’s Paper

### Russia-Ukraine War

  * liveUpdates
  * Ukraine’s War Dead
  * Maps: Russia's Invasion
  * Photos
  * Documenting Atrocities

# What Happened on Day 97 of the War in Ukraine

As Russian forces advanced into Sievierodonetsk, Ukraine’s allies in Europe
promised to increase aid, cut Russian oil imports and work to ship Ukrainian
grain out of the country. Biden said the U.S. would send more advanced rocket
systems.

Published May 31, 2022Updated June 15, 2022

  * Give this article

  *   * 

Image![A resident moving through an apartment on Tuesday in Vuhledar, a
village in the eastern Donetsk region that has been heavily
damaged.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/31/multimedia/31ukraine-
blog-header-7pm-est/31ukraine-blog-header-7pm-est-
articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

A resident moving through an apartment on Tuesday in Vuhledar, a village in
the eastern Donetsk region that has been heavily damaged.Credit...Finbarr
O'Reilly for The New York Times

 _Follow the latest updates on_ _Russia’s invasion of Ukraine_ _._

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

Matina Stevis-Gridneff and Richard Pérez-Peña

## Here’s the latest on the war in Ukraine.

Image

A Ukrainian artillery team engaged in an exchange with Russian forces four
miles away near the village of Vuhledar in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region on
Tuesday.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

BRUSSELS — Russian troops battled their way into the devastated Ukrainian city
of Sievierodonetsk on Tuesday, as their slow, brutal offensive in eastern
Ukraine shifted from indiscriminate shelling to street fighting, with
thousands of civilians still trapped among the ruins.

With Moscow pressing its advance despite heavy losses, Ukraine’s allies looked
to new ways to raise the price Russia pays for aggression, while easing the
pain it causes elsewhere. A day after the European Union agreed to ban most
Russian oil imports, the bloc’s focus shifted to aiding Ukraine and helping it
resume food exports that are vital to feeding the world.

Wrapping up a two-day summit meeting in Brussels, E.U. leaders agreed to $9.7
billion in aid to Ukraine this year, albeit with demands attached to fight the
corruption that has plagued the country. And Ursula von der Leyen, president
of the E.U. executive commission, said the developing global food crisis is
“only the fault of Russia,” which has seized or blockaded all of Ukraine’s
Black Sea ports.

“The only reason we are struggling with this is because of this brutal,
unjustified war against Ukraine,” she said.

Details of the oil embargo have yet to be hammered out, but E.U. officials
said that it would reduce imports of Russian oil by 90 percent by year’s end —
a severe blow to a major source of revenue for Vladimir V. Putin’s government
and its ability to pay for high-tech weaponry.

Image

The aftermath of a Russian strike that hit a residential area in Sloviansk
overnight on Monday. Three people were said to have been killed in the attack,
with another six injured.Credit...Ivor Prickett for The New York Times

The agreement reached on Monday allows continued imports through pipelines,
effectively exempting Hungary, which relies very heavily on Russian energy,
after the Hungarian leader Viktor Orban said a complete embargo would be “an
atomic bomb being dropped on the Hungarian economy.” Mr. Orban, who has been
friendlier with Mr. Putin than any other E.U. leader, had held up the deal for
weeks, raising alarms about the ability of the bloc, which operates by
consensus, to continue ratcheting up its actions against Russia.

Some E.U. member countries are calling for confiscating, rather than just
freezing, Russian assets abroad, but the Biden administration has so far
resisted that move.

In Ukraine, Russia’s military has been trying to cut off the easternmost
pocket still controlled by Ukrainian troops, and in particular the eastern
tip, Sievierodonetsk, hammering the city for weeks with artillery before
trying to take it. Russian troops fought their way into the outskirts of the
city on Monday, and on Tuesday were “gradually moving toward downtown,” said
Serhiy Haidai, the head of the Ukrainian regional military administration.

But about 12,000 residents, out of a prewar population around 100,000, remain
in the ruined city, according to the Norwegian Refugee Council, an aid group,
without enough food, water, medicine — or shelter from continued bombardment.
Many of them are old or infirm people who were unable or unwilling to join the
millions fleeing westward from eastern Ukraine.

“It breaks my heart,” said Jan Egeland, secretary general of the Norwegian
Refugee Council and a former United Nations humanitarian coordinator. “It is
really a war on the elderly.”

Image

Olena Tyvanyuk, 70, in her kitchen in the frontline city of Bakhmut in
Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region on Saturday.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The
New York Times

Thousands more Ukrainian civilians remain in cities very near the front lines,
like Lysychansk and Bakhmut, and others like Sloviansk and Kramatorsk that are
farther west but still in the path of Russian offensives, and all have seen
civilians and civilian infrastructure bombarded. An unknown number are still
in territory seized by Russia and subjected to Moscow’s increasingly harsh
rule in the eastern Donbas region, the Kharkiv area north of it, and the
coastal areas to the southwest.

Early in the war, some Russian offensives failed because they were spread too
thin. Around Sievierodonetsk and other parts of Donbas, “Russia has achieved
greater local successes than earlier in the campaign by massing forces and
fires in a relatively small area,” the British defense ministry said Tuesday
in its latest intelligence assessment.

Western military analysts say the Russians probably set out to encircle a
large pocket, trapping Ukrainian troops as they did those defending the
southern city of Mariupol. They have shrunk the pocket, but have so far been
unable to cut it off.

Heavy losses have reduced Russia’s fighting strength by about 20 percent, a
Pentagon official said Tuesday. Despite a leadership shake-up, U.S. officials
say the Russian military’s continued mistakes and plodding pace are worsening
its own attrition.

Since they invaded on Feb. 24, the Kremlin’s forces have been stretched by
major troop casualties and equipment losses, and by fierce and shrewd
Ukrainian resistance, surprising analysts who expected a quick Russian
victory.

Now, the Ukrainians are mounting a counteroffensive against the captured
southern city of Kherson, partly in hopes of forcing Russia to divert forces
from Donbas.

Image

Residents of Irpin walk past damaged and destroyed vehicles — many with bullet
holes in the windshields — collected from the Ukrainian town’s outskirts on
Tuesday.Credit...Nicole Tung for The New York Times

Ned Price, the spokesman for the U.S. State Department, cited statements by
several Russian officials indicating that the Kremlin plans to annex the
territory it has seized.

“We remain concerned about steps Russia is taking to attempt to
institutionalize control over sovereign Ukrainian territory, particularly in
the Kherson region,” he said at a news briefing. He added, “Multiple reports
indicate Russian forces have forcibly removed legitimate Ukrainian government
officials and installed illegitimate pro-Russian proxies.”

On Tuesday, a Ukrainian court concluded the second war crimes trial against
captured Russian soldiers, finding two of them guilty of shelling a civilian
area, and sentencing them to 11 and a half years in prison. A third trial —
which is the first to involve accusations of a sex crime — is expected to
begin soon.

The soldiers convicted on Tuesday were accused of shelling Derhachi, a town
near Kharkiv, in the northeast — an area where towns and cities are still
bombarded by Russian forces, though the Ukrainians have pushed them back
several miles. In Derhachi, houses are being destroyed on a regular basis and
hundreds of people are still living in underground shelters.

Ukraine’s top prosecutor, Irina Venediktova, wrote on Facebook that a Russian
soldier “will be tried for the murder of a civilian man and the sexual abuse
of his wife.”

Image

Grain silos in Boryspil, Ukraine, on Monday.Credit...Nicole Tung for The New
York Times

Ukraine is usually one of the world’s biggest exporters of food staples like
corn, wheat and sunflower oil, but its output has plummeted as the war has
interfered with sowing, harvesting, storing and, most debilitating of all,
shipping. Even before the war, global food reserves were low and supply chains
disrupted by the pandemic, and the United Nations has predicted that the loss
of Ukrainian grain will lead to famine.

Ukraine says the Russian blockade has prevented 22 million tons of grain from
leaving Ukraine, and there is limited capacity to shift that to export by
trains and trucks. In addition, Ukrainian and international officials charge
that Russian forces have targeted grain silos and railways used to transport
food, stolen Ukrainian grain stores, and littered farms with explosives, both
accidentally and intentionally.

Turkey’s foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said Tuesday that his Russian
counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, and Russian military officials would visit
Turkey to explore a deal to allow grain ships to leave Ukrainian ports.

Matina Stevis-Gridneff reported from Brussels and Richard Pérez-Peña from New
York. Reporting was contributed by Matthew Mpoke Bigg and Marc Santora from
Krakow, Poland; Valerie Hopkins from Kyiv, Ukraine; Monika Pronczuk from
Brussels; Dan Bilefsky from Montreal; Victoria Kim from Seoul; Safak Timur
from Istanbul; and Farnaz Fassihi from New York.

Show more

![Jane Arraf](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2021/02/22/reader-center/author-
jane-arraf/author-jane-arraf-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 9:45 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 9:45 p.m. ET

Jane Arraf

## To house refugees, Lviv wants to make beautiful buildings that last.

Image

Lviv’s opera house opened in 1900, when the city was part of the Austro-
Hungarian empire.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

Image

A sandbagged entrance to a bomb shelter in a park in Lviv. A new building code
will require all new residential buildings in the city to include bomb
shelters.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

Image

Scaffolding and sandbags shield a monument from bombardment in
Lviv.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

LVIV, Ukraine — Amid war with Russia, this historic city that is a Unesco
world heritage site faces a challenge: how to integrate tens of thousands of
Ukrainians displaced from fighting in the east without sacrificing its
aesthetics or derailing its efforts to become a sustainable, livable European
city.

Several hundred thousand Ukrainians have passed through Lviv, in the west,
many crossing into Poland about 40 miles away. But city officials expect about
50,000 of those displaced to remain.

Those who stay have been housed in schools and sports arenas turned into
shelters. Recently, hundreds of families have moved into container housing set
up in parks and empty lots.

But with permanent housing costing the same as container housing, Anton
Kolomeytsev, the city’s chief architect, said Lviv would turn to construction,
combining residential and commercial units with green space and recreational
facilities.

“When we build a building, we have to think it’s built for not months, not
years, but for dozens of years, for centuries,” said Mr. Kolomeytsev, 35, who
studied and worked in Vienna, but says his work is shaped by having grown up
in Lviv, whose architecture shows a blend of Eastern European, Italian and
German influences. “We are in a very rich cultural environment.”

A rendering of one project shows white metal-clad buildings so delicate they
appear to almost float on the fields of grass. The vertical lines of the
siding flow into peaked roofs above large rectangular windows, while the
asymmetrical entranceway contains floor-to-ceiling windows flooding the
interior with natural light.

Scheduled to open in two months, it will accommodate 120 people — initially,
pregnant women and their children.

The new construction is part of planning by Lviv’s mayor, Andriy Sadovyi, who
said he envisioned a new, more resilient Ukraine after this war and is
revamping his city’s infrastructure to prepare for an almost constant state of
conflict.

“We must be ready for the next Russian invasion,” he said.

Show more

### Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

![Diego Ibarra
Sanchez](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/25/world/Diego-Ibarra-
Sanchez-Profile/Diego-Ibarra-Sanchez-Profile-thumbLarge.jpg)

May 31, 2022, 8:44 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 8:44 p.m. ET

Diego Ibarra Sanchez

Over 100 members of volunteer defense forces exercise early in the morning at
an undisclosed location in Ukraine. The military institution was created just
before the Russian invasion in February and has been training thousands of
civilians. Andriy Andreykiv, a Ukrainian military commander, tries to help the
volunteers find mental peace on the battlefield. “Meditation is a mutual
training," he said. "It brings stability to all the challenges and also to the
opportunities we have in different situations. We presume that during a
military mission a soldier needs to be focused, not be afraid, keep calm. He
must be composed.”

Image

Credit...Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times

Image

Credit...Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times

![Michael D.
Shear](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-
shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png)

May 31, 2022, 8:05 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 8:05 p.m. ET

Michael D. Shear

## The U.S. will send more advanced rocket systems to Ukraine, Biden says.

Image

Ukrainian artillerymen at an American-made Howitzer artillery piece in eastern
Ukraine. The United States has progressively expanded the weaponry it has
given Ukraine.Credit...Ivor Prickett for The New York Times

WASHINGTON — The United States will send Ukraine advanced rocket systems and
munitions as part of a new $700 million package of military equipment intended
to help the Ukrainians fight back against the Russian invasion of their
country, President Biden and White House officials said on Tuesday.

Mr. Biden announced his decision to provide the rocket systems, which can
precisely target an enemy from almost 50 miles away, in an Op-Ed published
online Tuesday evening by The New York Times. He said the delivery of the
advanced weapons would enable Ukraine to “fight on the battlefield and be in
the strongest possible position at the negotiating table.”

But a senior administration official said later that the weapons system — the
most advanced provided to the Ukrainians to date — was promised only after
direct assurances by Ukraine’s leaders that they would not use it against
targets within Russian territory.

As the war has dragged on, the Biden administration has progressively widened
the array of weaponry it has provided to the Ukrainians, and the latest
package will also include Javelin antitank missiles, artillery rounds,
helicopters and tactical vehicles. But top administration officials have been
concerned about provoking a broader war with President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia by providing equipment that could allow Ukraine to strike deep inside
his country.

That has proved to be a tricky line to walk for the president and his advisers
since Mr. Putin sent his troops into Ukraine nearly 100 days ago.

In his article on Tuesday, Mr. Biden described his administration’s resolve to
support Ukraine in its attempts to repel Russian invaders. But Mr. Biden also
offered specific assurances for Mr. Putin that the United States does not
intend to provoke a wider conflict or the use of weapons of mass destruction.

“We currently see no indication that Russia has intent to use nuclear weapons
in Ukraine, though Russia’s occasional rhetoric to rattle the nuclear saber is
itself dangerous and extremely irresponsible,” Mr. Biden wrote. “Let me be
clear: Any use of nuclear weapons in this conflict on any scale would be
completely unacceptable to us as well as the rest of the world and would
entail severe consequences.”

Mr. Biden stated bluntly in his article that he did not seek to overthrow Mr.
Putin, despite his off-the-cuff remarks during a speech in Poland earlier this
year, when he said the Russian president “cannot remain in power.” On Tuesday,
Mr. Biden presented a different view.

“We do not seek a war between NATO and Russia,” he said. “As much as I
disagree with Mr. Putin, and find his actions an outrage, the United States
will not try to bring about his ouster in Moscow. So long as the United States
or our allies are not attacked, we will not be directly engaged in this
conflict, either by sending American troops to fight in Ukraine or by
attacking Russian forces.”

Mr. Biden’s administration has already sent Ukraine about $5 billion worth of
antitank and antiaircraft missiles, unmanned aerial vehicles, helicopters and
other military equipment as the European country seeks to repel Russia’s
invasion.

Administration officials said the advanced rockets and other equipment will be
formally announced on Wednesday, along with a spare parts package that will
allow Ukrainians to maintain the artillery equipment that has been provided.

Officials said on Tuesday that Ukraine will be receiving the American High
Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or HIMARS, which is a weapon capable of
firing satellite-guided rockets that carry roughly the same explosive power as
a 500-pound bomb dropped from the air.

The system can strike targets up to 48 miles away, a senior administration
official told reporters Tuesday evening, well beyond the range of any
artillery Ukraine now uses. According to a report published by the
Congressional Research Service in June, the Pentagon has spent about $5.4
billion to buy more than 42,000 such rockets since 1998.

The system could be outfitted with even longer-range rockets, capable of
flying nearly 200 miles before striking a target, officials said Tuesday. But
Mr. Biden decided against providing those rockets to Ukraine, a senior
administration official said.

Mr. Biden had told reporters on Monday that “we’re not going to send to
Ukraine rocket systems that can strike into Russia.”

One senior administration official acknowledged that even the rockets with a
48-mile limit could be used to attack targets inside Russia if the system was
brought to the Ukraine-Russia border. But the official, who spoke to reporters
on condition of anonymity, said that Ukraine’s government had assured the
United States that would not happen, and that the administration was
comfortable with the assurances.

Mr. Biden made clear in his Op-Ed on Tuesday that it was important for the
United States, and other countries, to provide more advanced weapons to
Ukraine as the Russian military makes gains in the eastern part of the
country.

“Standing by Ukraine in its hour of need is not just the right thing to do,”
he wrote. “It is in our vital national interests to ensure a peaceful and
stable Europe and to make it clear that might does not make right.”

The tone of Mr. Biden’s article indicated that he believed Americans should
prepare for the war to continue for a long time. He said he wrote the article
to make the aims of the United States clear “as the war goes on.”

Even as he vowed ongoing military support for Ukraine, Mr. Biden said he
continued to hope that the countries could find a diplomatic end to the
conflict.

“Ukraine’s talks with Russia are not stalled because Ukraine has turned its
back on diplomacy,” he wrote. “They are stalled because Russia continues to
wage a war to take control of as much of Ukraine as it can. The United States
will continue to work to strengthen Ukraine and support its efforts to achieve
a negotiated end to the conflict.”

John Ismay contributed reporting.

Show more

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

May 31, 2022, 8:00 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 8:00 p.m. ET

Monika Pronczuk and Dan Bilefsky

## Europe, fresh from adopting an oil embargo on Russia, turns to the food
crisis.

Image

“The only reason why we are struggling now with a food crisis is because of
this brutal unjustified war against Ukraine,” Ursula von der Leyen, president
of the European Commission, said Tuesday.Credit...Kenzo Tribouillard/Agence
France-Presse — Getty Images

Policy in Brussels can often move at a glacial pace, trying the patience of
even the most seasoned E.U. diplomat. So the speed with which Europe moved to
ban Russian oil imports after years of trying to offset dependence on Russian
energy is a major show of unity against the Kremlin.

Now, however, Europe faces another daunting task: how to confront a Russian
blockade of Ukrainian grain that is threatening to create a global food
crisis, and foment hunger and even political instability in Africa. Already
hosting millions of Ukrainian refugees, European leaders are concerned about a
new wave of African migrants arriving into the bloc.

Unlocking the blockade could prove to be the most serious global challenge yet
generated by the Russian invasion as President Vladimir V. Putin uses food as
a political weapon.

Ukraine used to be a major global food exporter: it produced 12 percent of the
world’s wheat, 15 percent of its corn, and 50 percent of its sunflower oil.
But Russia’s blockade of Ukraine’s Black Sea ports has disrupted global supply
chains and sent prices for agricultural goods soaring, exposing several
countries, especially in Africa, to perilous food shortages.

Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Ursula von der Leyen, president of the
European Commission, the bloc’s executive branch, didn’t mince words. “The
only reason why we are struggling now with a food crisis is because of this
brutal unjustified war against Ukraine,” she said.

Russia is currently blocking 22 million tons of grain in Ukraine, bombarding
houses where wheat is stored, and mining fields, Ms. von der Leyen said. It is
also seeking to blame Western sanctions for the food crisis, an accusation Ms.
von der Leyen vehemently rejected.

Getting the wheat out of Ukraine will be “tedious and expensive,” she said,
but it is “necessary.”

Ms. von der Leyen’s words were echoed by prime minister Mario Draghi of Italy,
who said Tuesday that if the West were to “lose the war on food security,”
African countries “will feel betrayed.” That, in turn, he added, could have
“strategic consequences that are very serious.”

Earlier this month, the commission announced a set of measures to ramp up
Ukraine’s exports of blocked grain and oilseed through existing land routes,
mainly through Poland and Romania. But there are complex challenges, including
the difference in the gauge of railway tracks between Ukraine and its
neighbors. Even without that hurdle, railway travel is significantly slower
than sending grain by sea.

But there is not much that the European Union alone can do to solve the
problem, and E.U. leaders this week also called on the G7, the world’s
wealthiest large democracies, and the U.N. to redouble their efforts.

Nevertheless, E.U. leaders can take some satisfaction in agreeing to an
embargo on Russian oil arriving in the bloc by sea. It is an unprecedented
economic measure that will ban two-thirds of Russian imports, and is expected
to hurt both the Kremlin and Europe’s households.

The once unthinkable measure is expected to significantly affect Moscow’s
ability to finance the war. The bloc also promised an aide package of $9.7
billion over the rest of this year to cover Ukraine’s reconstruction, with
losses inflicted on the country by Russian aggression estimated by Ukrainian
authorities to now be at least $650 billion.

The oil embargo was expected to inspire the Kremlin’s ire. Even as the E.U
officials were meeting, Russia disrupted supplies of natural gas to the
Netherlands, having already done the same to Bulgaria, Poland and Finland over
their refusal to pay in rubles, offering a glimpse of Moscow’s willingness to
leverage its energy supplies.

The oil embargo is part of the bloc’s sixth package of sanctions against
Russia, which have also included barring the country’s largest lender,
Sberbank, as well as two other Russian banks from the Swift messaging platform
that facilitates international transactions.

The oil ban had been blocked for more than a month by Prime Minister Viktor
Orban of Hungary, who maintains warm relations with President Vladimir V.
Putin. In the end, he got an exemption from the embargo, undermining European
unity and underlining how even one mercurial leader can be an E.U. spoiler.

True to form, Mr. Orban turned to social media to proclaim “victory” for
Hungary.

Nevertheless, before Russia’s February invasion of Ukraine, such a robust E.U.
ban on Russian oil imports seemed all but impossible to achieve.

Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki of Poland, a staunch advocate for strong
sanctions against Moscow, hailed the summit as an achievement. “We managed to
maintain unity, and today we are even stronger than a couple of days ago,” he
said.

Elisabetta Povoledo and Benjamin Novak contributed reporting.

Show more

### Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

May 31, 2022, 7:29 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 7:29 p.m. ET

Ang Li

President Emmanuel Macron of France said his country would continue to “fight
against impunity” after the French journalist Frédéric Leclerc-Imhoff was
killed on Monday in eastern Ukraine. Mr. Macron also said that France will
work with Ukraine to investigate Mr. Leclerc-Imhoff’s murder.

Video

![Video player
loading](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/31/world/europe/31vid-macron-
french-journalist-killed-cover/31vid-macron-french-journalist-killed-cover-
videoSixteenByNine1050.jpg)

![Anushka Patil](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/04/12/reader-
center/author-anushka-patil/author-anushka-patil-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 7:12 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 7:12 p.m. ET

Anushka Patil

President Zuzana Caputova of Slovakia reiterated her country’s support for
Ukraine in a meeting with President Zelensky in Kyiv on Tuesday, a day after
an E.U. deal to ban most Russian oil imports was reached. Slovakia is heavily
dependent on Russian oil but had already indicated it was working on
transitioning its supply.

Image

Credit...Sergey Dolzhenko/EPA, via Shutterstock

![Anushka Patil](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/04/12/reader-
center/author-anushka-patil/author-anushka-patil-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 6:35 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 6:35 p.m. ET

Anushka Patil

President Volodymyr Zelensky did not provide more details on earlier reports
from Ukrainian officials that an airstrike had hit a chemical plant in
Sievierodonetsk, but he said in his nightly address that with large-scale
chemical production in the city, Russian strikes there, “are just madness.”

Russia now controls most of the city, the head of the regional administration,
Serhiy Haidai, said in a Telegram update after a day of heavy fighting.

![Anushka Patil](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/04/12/reader-
center/author-anushka-patil/author-anushka-patil-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 5:40 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 5:40 p.m. ET

Anushka Patil

President Biden and Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand discussed aid
to Ukraine and expressed concerns about global food security during a meeting
at the White House on Tuesday, a joint statement said.

Image

Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

![Helene Cooper](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/24/multimedia/author-
helene-cooper/author-helene-cooper-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 4:08 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 4:08 p.m. ET

Helene Cooper

## Russia’s military is repeating mistakes in Eastern Ukraine, the U.S. says.

Image

Gen. Aleksandr V. Dvornikov was appointed by President Vladimir V. Putin to
revamp Russia’s war campaign in Ukraine.Credit...Vasily
Deryugin/Kommersant/Sipa, via Associated Press

WASHINGTON — The Russian military, beaten down and demoralized after three
months of war, is making the same mistakes in its campaign to capture a swath
of eastern Ukraine that forced it to abandon its push to take the entire
country, senior American officials say.

While Russian troops are capturing territory, a Pentagon official said that
their “plodding and incremental” pace was wearing them down, and that the
military’s overall fighting strength had been diminished by about 20 percent.
And since the war started, Russia has lost 1,000 tanks, a senior Pentagon
official said last week.

President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia appointed a new commander, Gen.
Aleksandr V. Dvornikov, in April in what was widely viewed as an
acknowledgment that the initial Russian war plan was failing.

Soon after his arrival, General Dvornikov tried to get disjointed air and land
units to coordinate their attacks, American officials said. But he has not
been seen in the past two weeks, leading some officials to speculate as to
whether he remains in charge of the war effort.

Russian pilots also continue to demonstrate the same risk-averse behavior they
did in the early weeks of the war: darting across the border to launch strikes
and then quickly returning to Russian territory, instead of staying in
Ukrainian air space to deny access to their foes. The result is that Russia
still has not established any kind of air superiority, officials said.

The Russian military has made some progress in the east, where concentrated
firepower and shortened supply lines have helped its forces fight intense
battles in recent days. After three bloody months, Russia finally took
Mariupol in mid-May, potentially creating a land bridge from the Russian-
controlled Crimean Peninsula to the south.

As Russia struggles to move forward, Ukraine has also suffered setbacks.
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine recently said that as many as 100
Ukrainian servicemen might be dying every day in the fighting. And on Tuesday,
Russian troops advanced toward the center of Sievierodonetsk, a city that has
become a central focus for the military since it shifted its attention to the
east.

But some of the areas that Russian forces managed to seize have been quickly
contested again, and sometimes retaken, by Ukrainian troops.

Consider Kharkiv. Russia spent six weeks bombarding the eastern city, once
home to 1.5 million people, as troops encircled it.

Image

A school destroyed by bombardment in the village of Vilkhivka, which is east
of Kharkiv.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

But by May 13, control of the city had flipped again. “The Russians took
Kharkiv for a short period of time; the Ukrainians counterattacked and took
Kharkiv back,” Defense Secretary Lloyd J. Austin III said at a news conference
at the Pentagon last week. “We’ve seen them really proceed at a very slow and
unsuccessful pace on the battlefield.”

Ukraine is now pushing Russian troops north and east from Kharkiv, “in some
cases all the way back to Russia,” said retired Gen. Philip Breedlove, the
former supreme allied commander for Europe. “So now Ukrainians are threatening
to cut off Russian lines of supply and pushing their forces to the rear.”

Cutting off Russian supply lines east of Kharkiv would put Russian troops in
the same situation they were in after their advance on Kyiv, the capital of
Ukraine, at the beginning of the war, officials said. Ukrainian units carrying
shoulder-fired Javelin antitank missiles picked off Russian soldiers as miles-
long Russian convoys near Kyiv stopped moving forward. The invasion stalled,
and thousands of Russian troops were killed or injured. Russia then refocused
its mission on the east.

In the early weeks of the war, Russia ran its military campaign out of Moscow,
with no central war commander on the ground to call the shots, American and
other Western officials said. In early April, after Russia’s logistics and
morale problems had become clear, Mr. Putin put General Dvornikov in charge of
a streamlined war effort.

General Dvornikov arrived with a daunting résumé. He started his career as a
platoon commander in 1982 and later fought in Russia’s brutal second war in
Chechnya. Moscow also sent him to Syria, where the forces under his command
were accused of targeting civilians.

In Ukraine, he established a more streamlined process. Russian pilots began
coordinating with troops on the ground toward a similar objective in the
eastern region of Donbas, and Russian units were talking to one another about
shared goals.

But the invasion is not “proceeding particularly differently in the east than
in the west because they haven’t been able to change the character of the
Russian army,” said Frederick W. Kagan, a senior fellow and director of the
Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute. “There are some
deep flaws in the Russian army that they could not have repaired in the last
few weeks even if they had tried. The flaws are deep and fundamental.”

At the top of that list is the Russian army’s lack of a noncommissioned
officers corps empowered to think for itself, Pentagon officials said.
American troops have sergeants and platoon leaders and corporals who are given
tasks and guidelines and left to accomplish those tasks as they see fit.

But Russia’s military follows a Soviet-style doctrinal method in which troops
at the bottom are not empowered to point out flaws in strategy that should be
obvious or to make adjustments.

The Ukrainians, after seven years of training alongside troops from the United
States and other NATO countries, follow the more Western method and have
proved particularly agile at adapting to circumstances, American military
officials said.

A two-week fighting pause after the Russian military gave up the fight for
Kyiv was not long enough to turn the campaign around, even with a more limited
goal, General Breedlove said. General Dvornikov’s “new tactics, resetting the
command and control so there was a focused decision maker — all that was right
or proper,” he said.

But, General Breedlove added: “Even our army would be hard-pressed to refit,
refurbish and reorganize in two weeks after having received such a sound
whipping.” When General Dvornikov took control, “the force was thrust back
into the battle too quickly. That decision had to have come from Moscow.”

After renewing an assault on the Donbas, Russia has pounded cities and
villages with a barrage of artillery. But troops have not followed that up
with any kind of sustained armored invasion, which is necessary if they will
hold the territory they are flattening, military officials say. That means
that Russia may find itself struggling to hold on to gains — as it did in
Kharkiv.

Evelyn Farkas, a former senior Pentagon official for Ukraine and Russia in the
Obama administration, said Mr. Putin was still too involved in the fight.

“We keep hearing accounts of Putin getting more involved,” said Ms. Farkas,
who is now executive director of the McCain Institute. “We know that if you
have presidents meddling in targeting and operational military decisions, it’s
a recipe for disaster.”

Show more

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

May 31, 2022, 3:52 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 3:52 p.m. ET

Alan Rappeport and David E. Sanger

## The White House and European allies disagree on whether to seize Russian
central bank assets to help Ukraine.

Image

A residential area in Sloviansk, Ukraine, on Tuesday, after a Russian strike.
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine has estimated that it could cost $600
billion to rebuild his country.Credit...Ivor Prickett for The New York Times

WASHINGTON — The devastation in Ukraine brought on by Russia’s war has leaders
around the world calling for seizing more than $300 billion of Russian central
bank assets and handing the funds to Ukraine to help rebuild the country.

But the movement, which has gained momentum in parts of Europe, has run into
resistance in the United States. Top Biden administration officials warned
that diverting those funds could be illegal and discourage other countries
from relying on the United States as a haven for investment.

The cost to rebuild Ukraine is expected to be significant. Its president,
Volodymyr Zelensky, estimated this month that it could be $600 billion after
months of artillery, missile and tank attacks — meaning that even if all of
Russia’s central bank assets abroad were seized, they would cover only half
the costs.

In a joint statement last week, finance ministers from Estonia, Latvia,
Lithuania and Slovakia urged the European Union to create a way to fund the
rebuilding of cities and towns in Ukraine with frozen Russian central bank
assets, so that Russia can be “held accountable for its actions and pay for
the damage caused.”

Confiscating the Russian assets was also a central topic at a gathering of top
economic officials from the Group of 7 nations at a meeting this month, with
the idea drawing public support from Germany and Canada.

The United States, which has led a global effort to isolate Russia with stiff
sanctions, has been far more cautious in this case. Internally, the Biden
administration has been debating whether to join an effort to seize the
assets, which include dollars and euros that Moscow deposited before its
invasion of Ukraine. Only a fraction of the funds are kept in the United
States; much of it was deposited in Europe, including at the Bank for
International Settlements in Switzerland.

Russia had hoped that keeping more than $600 billion in central bank reserves
would help bolster its economy against sanctions. But it made the mistake of
sending half those funds out of the country. By all accounts, Russian
officials were stunned at the speed at which they were frozen — a very
different reaction from the one it faced after annexing Crimea in 2014, when
it took a year for weak sanctions to be imposed.

Those funds have been frozen for the past three months, keeping the government
of President Vladimir V. Putin from repatriating the money or spending it on
the war. But seizing or actually taking ownership of them is another matter.

At a news conference in Germany this month, Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen
appeared to close the door on the United States’ ability to participate in any
effort to seize and redistribute those assets. Ms. Yellen, a former central
banker who initially had reservations about immobilizing the assets, said that
while the concept was being studied, she believed that seizing the funds would
violate U.S. law.

Image

Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen has cautioned against seizing Russian
central bank assets to help pay for Ukraine’s reconstruction.Credit...Ina
Fassbender/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

“I think it’s very natural that given the enormous destruction in Ukraine and
huge rebuilding costs that they will face, that we will look to Russia to help
pay at least a portion of the price that will be involved,” she said. “It’s
not something that is legally permissible in the United States.”

But within the Biden administration, one official said, there was reluctance
“to have any daylight between us and the Europeans on sanctions.” So the
United States is seeking to find some kind of common ground while analyzing
whether a seizure of central bank funds might, for example, encourage other
countries to put their central bank reserves in other currencies and keep it
out of American hands.

In addition to the legal obstacles, Ms. Yellen and others have argued that it
could make nations reluctant to keep their reserves in dollars, for fear that
in future conflicts the United States and its allies would confiscate the
funds. Some national security officials in the Biden administration say they
are concerned that if negotiations between Ukraine and Russia begin, there
would be no way to offer significant sanctions relief to Moscow once the
reserves have been drained from its overseas accounts.

Treasury officials suggested before Ms. Yellen’s comments that the United
States had not settled on a firm position about the fate of the assets.
Several senior officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss
internal debates in the Biden administration, suggested that no final decision
had been made. One official said that while seizing the funds to pay for
reconstruction would be satisfying and warranted, the precedent it would set —
and its potential effect on the United States’ status as the world’s safest
place to leave assets — was a deep concern.

In explaining Ms. Yellen’s comments, a Treasury spokeswoman pointed to the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977, which says that the
United States can confiscate foreign property if the president determines that
the country is under attack or “engaged in armed hostilities.”

Legal scholars have expressed differing views about that reading of the law.

Laurence H. Tribe, an emeritus law professor at Harvard University, argues
that the International Emergency Economic Powers Act gives the president ample
authority to freeze and seize Russia’s central bank assets. Even if that were
in doubt, he said, an amendment to the law that passed after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks gives the president broader discretion to determine if
a foreign threat warrants confiscation of assets. President Biden could cite
Russian cyberattacks against the United States to justify liquidating the
central bank reserves, Mr. Tribe said, adding that the Treasury Department was
misreading the law.

“If Secretary Yellen believes this is illegal, I think she’s flatly wrong,” he
said. “It may be that they are blending legal questions with their policy
concerns.”

Mr. Tribe pointed to recent cases of the United States confiscating and
redistributing assets from Afghanistan, Iran and Venezuela as precedents that
showed Russia’s assets did not deserve special safeguards.

But according to Paul B. Stephan, a law professor at the University of
Virginia, the examples of Afghanistan and Venezuela are not comparable because
the United States did not recognize those governments as legitimate. He also
argued that Mr. Biden would be escalating the conflict with Russia if he
conflated cyberattacks with an act of war to justify seizing Russian assets.

“I would find that alarming,” Mr. Stephan said. “We’ve been trying to be
stable, rather than destabilizing, in this area.”

He added that Congress could amend the law to clearly grant the United States
the authority to confiscate Russia’s assets, but that doing so was likely to
lead to complex legal battles between the two countries.

Congress could be heading in that direction. Last month, the House passed the
bipartisan Asset Seizure for Ukraine Reconstruction Act, which would encourage
the Biden administration to devise a way to liquidate the properties of
sanctioned Russian oligarchs and companies, with the proceeds given to
Ukraine. But officials say it is one thing to seize the physical assets of
oligarchs and another to seize the central bank reserves of countries.

The White House last month released a package of proposals seeking new powers
to garnish the assets of sanctioned Russian oligarchs. The process for the
federal government to take ownership of assets such as yachts and planes is
cumbersome and time-consuming.

Canada also introduced legislation in April that would give its government new
authority to seize and sell assets of sanctioned Russian oligarchs and give
the proceeds to Ukraine.

Chrystia Freeland, the deputy prime minister and finance minister of Canada,
said during the Group of 7 meetings that other countries were considering
similar legal frameworks.

“Canada recognizes — and this was a view shared by our G7 partners that
Ukraine’s financial needs are huge — the needs for the rebuilding are huge,
and it is entirely appropriate for the aggressor to help pay for that
rebuilding,” Ms. Freeland said.

As nations debate how to handle the Russian assets, Ukraine passed a law this
month that allowed it to confiscate Russian property in the country and use
the funds to replenish the national budget. In an address to the World
Economic Forum, Mr. Zelensky urged others to follow suit by tracking down,
freezing and seizing Russian assets.

“They should be allocated to a special fund,” he said, “that would be used to
help all of those affected by the war.”

Show more

### Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

![Farnaz Fassihi](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/02/28/world/farnaz-
fassahi/farnaz-fassahi-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 3:08 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 3:08 p.m. ET

Farnaz Fassihi

Reporting from New York

Linda Thomas-Greenfield, the U.S. ambassador to the U.N., said Tuesday that
the U.S. supported a peace plan initiated by Italy to end the war in Ukraine.
Thomas-Greenfield said that the U.S. would not become a party to the war and
that it would support Ukraine by providing only weapons for it to defend
itself inside its borders.

![Farnaz Fassihi](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/02/28/world/farnaz-
fassahi/farnaz-fassahi-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 3:08 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 3:08 p.m. ET

Farnaz Fassihi

Reporting from New York

Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield also said the U.S. supported all efforts to get
Ukrainian grain to the open market. The U.S. is willing to write “comfort
letters” for shipping and insurance companies reassuring them that Russia’s
fertilizers and grains are not under sanctions, she said.

![Matina Stevis-Gridneff](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/26/reader-
center/author-matina-stevis-gridneff/author-matina-stevis-gridneff-
thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 2:23 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 2:23 p.m. ET

Matina Stevis-Gridneff

## E.U. leader says the new Russian oil import ban sends a ‘clear’ message to
Moscow.

Video

![Video player
loading](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/06/30/world/30ukraine-blog-eu-
agree-sub/30ukraine-blog-eu-agree-sub-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg)

European Union leaders reached an agreement to ban Russian oil imports
arriving by sea by the end of the year, cutting off two-thirds of the bloc’s
total imports. Hungary would still be allowed imports by
pipeline.CreditCredit...Reuters

BRUSSELS — European Union leaders reached a landmark political agreement late
Monday to ban the vast majority of the bloc’s Russian oil imports by the end
of the year, a measure that was considered impossible in the early stages of
the Russian invasion of Ukraine because of the bloc’s high dependency on the
fuel.

“Yesterday, in the middle of the night we decided to have a ban on de facto 90
percent of Russian oil imports to the European Union by the end of the year,”
Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, told reporters
on Tuesday. “And this comes at a time when we see that Russia has disrupted
supplies to by now five member states. So our answer has to be very clear.”

European leaders wrapped up their meeting in Brussels on Tuesday, but
negotiators will still need to work out technical details in the coming days.
E.U. leaders said they had agreed to ban Russian oil arriving in the bloc by
sea by the end of the year.

Hungary and its prime minister, Viktor Orban, an occasional ally of Mr. Putin,
had been blocking the measure. To win Hungary’s approval, European leaders
agreed to allow pipeline imports.

Five European countries import Russian oil by pipeline. Germany and Poland
agreed to cut off all Russian imports, including those arriving by pipeline,
by the end of the year, but Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic made no
such pledge. The three countries are very dependent on Russian oil imports,
but Slovakia and the Czech Republic have already indicated that they were
working toward switching their supply away from Russia.

As part of the agreement, Hungary also received assurances that, should the
pipeline that delivers Russian oil, which runs through Ukraine, be hit, the
country would be permitted to import oil without being accused of violating
sanctions.

Even with the exceptions to appease Hungary, a small country that represents a
tiny fraction of the Russian oil imported by the bloc, the measure will cost
the Kremlin billions of dollars a year in revenue while also strategically
decoupling Europe from Russia in a lasting way. It will also likely hit Europe
hard, as households and businesses are already **** facing steeper energy
prices.

Show more

![Finbarr O'Reilly](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2021/12/16/world/author-
finbarr-oreilly/author-finbarr-oreilly-thumbLarge.jpg)

May 31, 2022, 12:42 p.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 12:42 p.m. ET

Finbarr O'Reilly

Reporting from Vuhledar, Ukraine

A Ukrainian artillery team on the Donetsk frontlines responded to Russian
artillery fire they said was coming from a church about four miles away. They
responded with two shells, the first of which struck a tower. The Russian crew
fired back, their shell landing about 700 yards from the Ukrainian position.
The Ukrainians adjusted their sights and fired three more shells. The Russian
gun fell silent.

Image

Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

Image

Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

![Monika Pronczuk](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/03/01/reader-
center/author-monika-pronczuk/author-monika-pronczuk-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 10:34 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 10:34 a.m. ET

Monika Pronczuk

Reporting from Brussels

European Union leaders wrapped up their meeting in Brussels that brought on a
new package of sanctions against Russia, including a long-debated ban on
Russian oil. Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission,
told reporters on Tuesday, “Our answer has to be very clear.”

![Monika Pronczuk](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/03/01/reader-
center/author-monika-pronczuk/author-monika-pronczuk-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 10:34 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 10:34 a.m. ET

Monika Pronczuk

Reporting from Brussels

The developing global food crisis, Ms. von der Leyen said, is “only the fault
of Russia.” She said Russia was blocking 22 million tones of grain in Ukraine,
bombarding houses where the wheat is stored, and mining the fields. “The only
reason we are struggling with this is because of this brutal, unjustified war
against Ukraine.”

![Matthew Mpoke Bigg](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/03/01/reader-
center/author-matthew-bigg/author-matthew-bigg-thumbLarge-v2.png)

May 31, 2022, 9:58 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 9:58 a.m. ET

Matthew Mpoke Bigg

## Russian forces advance in Sievierodonetsk, where as many as 12,000
civilians are trapped.

Image

Residents of an apartment block prepared meals outside in Sievierodonetsk last
week, despite nearby Russian bombardment.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New
York Times

Fighting raged in Sievierodonetsk on Tuesday as Russian troops advanced toward
the center of a city that has become a central focus for President Vladimir V.
Putin’s forces since they failed to seize Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, early in
the war and pivoted to the east of the country.

Russian forces had occupied parts of Sievierodonetsk, an industrial city on
the Seversky Donets River that is the last in the Luhansk region to remain
outside Russian control, and were “gradually moving toward downtown,” the head
of the Ukrainian military administration in Luhansk, Serhiy Haidai, said.

“Street fighting continues,” he said. Two civilians had been killed since
Monday and four others were wounded.

Most of the city’s civilian prewar population of around 100,000 has fled in
the face of a Russian artillery barrage that has endured for weeks, but 12,000
people, many of them elderly, are trapped in appalling conditions, according
to an estimate by the Norwegian Refugee Council aid group.

Families and young people have largely left the city. Many of the older people
who remain have health problems or disabilities that make flight impossible,
according to Jan Egeland, secretary general of the Norwegian Refugee Council
and a former United Nations humanitarian coordinator.

“It breaks my heart,” Mr. Egeland said in an interview. “It is really a war on
the elderly.” He called for a humanitarian cease-fire to allow for evacuations
and the resupply of aid.

Image

Smoke rising over Sievierodonetsk on Monday.Credit...Aris Messinis/Agence
France-Presse — Getty Images

Ukrainian authorities halted attempts to evacuate civilians via a road leading
to the city of Bakhmut on Monday after a French journalist was killed when the
armored bus he was riding in was hit by shrapnel from what Ukrainian officials
said was a Russian shell.

A relentless artillery barrage that has damaged as much as 90 percent of the
city’s buildings has forced the residents who remain to hide in basements and
bomb shelters, emerging briefly to cook food.

Mr. Egeland said he had visited his aid group’s operation in the city just
before the war began and found it hard to believe how much had changed since.
The group has now lost contact with the only staff member who remained there;
in the last phone call with him, the staff member described the situation as
horrendous, Mr. Egeland said.

Russian forces have pounded Sievierodonetsk for weeks with artillery. In
recent days, they have seized two key points in the northeast of the city, a
hotel and a bus station, and have also gained ground in the southeast.

Moscow has gained leverage in its effort to take the city by focusing its
forces on the region, according to military analysts. In doing so, it may be
starting to correct an error made at the outset of the invasion in February,
when spreading its forces across the country contributed to Moscow’s failure
to take Kyiv or the country’s second-largest city, Kharkiv.

Russian forces have fired on 46 settlements in the eastern provinces of
Donetsk and Luhansk over the past day, killing at least three civilians and
wounding seven others, Ukraine’s chief of staff said in a statement on
Tuesday.

Show more

### Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

May 31, 2022, 9:31 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 9:31 a.m. ET

Nicole Tung and Dan Bilefsky

## Grain producers confront a new challenge engendered by war: clearing the
fields of potentially lethal shells.

Image

A worker passing rows of grain storage bins at Agro-Region in Boryspil,
Ukraine, on Monday. The facility is to the east of Kyiv, and suffered Russian
bombardment earlier in the war.Credit...Nicole Tung for The New York Times

Image

A laboratory worker performing quality control on grain produced by Agro-
Region on Monday.Credit...Nicole Tung for The New York Times

Image

Mechanics repairing a combine harvester on Monday. The facility’s workers
continued their labor even as Russian forces advanced nearby early in the
war.Credit...Nicole Tung for The New York Times

Grain production in a war zone is not for the fainthearted or risk-averse.

In early April, when it appeared that Russian forces were retreating from the
Kyiv region, employees at Agro-Region, a Ukrainian grain producer, raced to
check their fields for unexploded ordnance, mindful that once the crops grew
in the spring, it would obscure their view of where potentially lethal shells
lay.

The Ukrainian military had laid mines in some of these fields to impede
Russian forces seeking to advance on Kyiv, the capital, and then removed them
as the position shifted. The emergency services were responsible for removing
shells, rockets and missiles. But the risk of an overlooked shell or rocket
presented a particular challenge for the staff at Agro-Region, one of dozens
of Ukrainian grain producers facing intensifying hurdles as grain exports
remain blockaded by Russian forces, choking revenues and threatening a global
food crisis.

The company specializes in corn, wheat and soy bean production on farms spread
across western and northern Ukraine.

Ivan Volodymyrovych, 27, manager of an Agro-Region facility in Boryspil, a
city to the east of Kyiv, which stores and transports grain, said that many
staff members had remained throughout some of the fiercest bombardments,
determined to continue their work. Farmers sowed the fields, while employees
slept under ground at night and kept watch over giant bins where the precious
grain is stored.

The ground would shake, he recalled, and staff would find artillery shells —
both exploded and unexploded ones — in the fields.

Even after having sowed seeds and cleared the fields of unexploded ordnance,
the company is now facing a growing storage crisis because of the Russian
blockade. “Right now, one of our biggest problems is not having space to store
all the grain because we weren’t able to export it this year,” Mr.
Volodymyrovych said.

The war in Ukraine is threatening to drive up global food prices as the
country’s southern ports grapple with blockades by the Russian military.

Agro-Region, which produced about 275,000 tons of crops including wheat and
grain last year, exported 90 percent of its goods through Black Sea ports
before the war broke out. The company is also facing logistical challenges in
transporting grain because Ukrainian railways are menaced by Russian attacks,
while Russia has taken territory in the east and the south, making it perilous
to transport grain to Russian-controlled territories.

Show more

![Valerie Hopkins](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2021/06/23/reader-
center/author-valerie-hopkins/author-valerie-hopkins-thumbLarge-v2.png)

May 31, 2022, 8:46 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 8:46 a.m. ET

Valerie Hopkins

Reporting from Kyiv, Ukraine

## A Ukrainian court sentences 2 Russian soldiers in a second war crimes
trial.

Image

Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Bobikin, center, leaving the courtroom after
their trial hearing in Kotelva, Ukraine, last week.Credit...Bernat
Armangue/Associated Press

A court in central Ukraine sentenced two Russian soldiers on Tuesday to 11 and
a half years in prison for shelling a town in the country’s northeast during
the war. It was the second guilty verdict handed down by Ukrainian courts for
war crimes since Russia’s full-scale invasion began in February.

The court found the soldiers, Aleksandr Bobikin and Aleksandr Ivanov, an
artillery driver and a gunner, guilty of shelling the town of Derhachi, north
of Kharkiv, from Russia.

“The guilt of Bobikin and Ivanov has been proven in full,” Judge Evhen Bolybok
told the courtroom in the Kotelva district court in central Ukraine.

When the proceedings began last week, both men pleaded guilty to being members
of a unit that targeted Derhachi with shelling from the region of Belgorod, on
the Russian side of the border. The men and their unit had then entered
Ukraine and continued attacking the town. They later surrendered to the
Ukrainian authorities.

Prosecutors said the soldiers had shelled an educational facility, though no
casualties were registered. The defense attorneys argued that both defendants
had been following orders.

The two soldiers were charged with violating the laws and customs of war. The
charge is laid out by the Geneva Conventions, to which Ukraine is a party.
Prosecutors had sought a 12-year sentence.

Derhachi, like Kharkiv and its other northern suburbs, is still regularly
targeted by Russian positions less than 10 miles away. Houses are being
destroyed on a daily basis, said Vyacheslav Fysun, a local councilman, when
New York Times journalists visited over the weekend. Hundreds of people are
still living in underground shelters.

Image

Vera and her husband, Volodymyr, sheltering underground in Derhachi this
week.Credit...Nicole Tung for The New York Times

The verdict is part of Ukraine’s large undertaking to account for the
destruction and death that Russian soldiers have wrought since February.
Ukraine’s top prosecutor, Irina Venediktova, has said that there are at least
11,000 investigations underway that could result in war crimes indictments.

Ms. Venediktova also announced on Monday that the first case involving wartime
rape had been sent to trial. “Mikhail Romanov will be tried for the murder of
a civilian man and the sexual abuse of his wife,” Ms. Venediktova wrote on
Facebook on Monday.

The prosecutor said the accused was a serviceman of the 239th Regiment of the
90th Guards Rifle Vitebsk-Novgorod Division of the Russian Armed Forces.

In March, during the occupation of the Brovary district in the Kyiv region,
“He shot and killed the owner of a house while intoxicated and raped his wife,
together with another occupant immediately after the murder,” Ms. Venediktova
wrote. “They threatened the woman with possible violence against her child.”

Show more

### Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

![Victoria Kim](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/03/17/reader-
center/author-victoria-kim/author-victoria-kim-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 7:53 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 7:53 a.m. ET

Victoria Kim

## Hungary’s oil embargo exemption is the latest sign of its leader’s affinity
for Russia.

Image

Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary at the European Union summit in
Brussels on Monday.Credit...Johanna Geron/Reuters

The European Union’s long-delayed deal to embargo Russian oil, finalized late
Monday, effectively exempts Hungary from the costly step the rest of the bloc
is taking to punish Russia for its invasion of Ukraine.

While Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, has cast his weekslong
opposition to the deal as purely about shielding his country’s economy, it was
also the latest step in what has been a decade-long turn of Hungary’s
leadership toward closer alignment with Russia, at times at the expense of
relations with its fellow members of the European Union and NATO.

The pivot has occurred despite deep-seated suspicion in Hungary of Russian
power and influence based on the history of Russian and Soviet troops brutally
cracking down on Hungarian uprisings in 1848-49 and in 1956.

Mr. Orban, an avowedly illiberal leader who earlier in his career was a vocal
critic of Moscow, has increasingly spoken admiringly of Russia’s president,
Vladimir V. Putin, and his brand of nationalism, expressing sympathies for Mr.
Putin’s security demands to NATO. He has also painted Hungary’s interests as
being distinct from the West by fanning culture wars and fears of liberal
values lapping at Hungary’s borders, speaking in March about “the gender
insanity sweeping across the Western world.”

Under Monday’s deal, E.U. nations agreed to block imports of Russian oil by
sea, which leaves Hungary’s supply intact because it is landlocked and
receives its oil by pipeline. The agreement also includes an assurance that
should the pipeline be damaged — it runs through Ukraine — Hungary could buy
Russian oil by other means without being accused of violating the European
blockade.

“Hungary is exempt from the oil embargo!” Mr. Orban declared on his Facebook
page Monday. He had previously said cutting off Russian oil “amounts to an
atomic bomb being dropped on the Hungarian economy.”

Hungary accounts for only a small fraction of the flow of Russian oil to the
E.U.; the embargo will deprive Russia of billions of dollars in revenue
regardless of Hungary’s continued imports.

On the eve of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February, as other allies were
raising alarm about Russia’s buildup of troops near the border, Mr. Orban
traveled to Moscow to reaffirm a deal for cheap Russian natural gas that has
helped him keep energy prices low at home and maintain political support.

Since the war’s start, Hungary has treaded a fine line, joining the first
rounds of sanctions against Russia and accepting Ukrainian refugees, while
refusing to allow deliveries of arms bound for Ukraine to go through the
country or to accept additional U.S. troops. Mr. Orban won re-election in
April for a fourth consecutive term despite criticism that he was cozying up
to Mr. Putin, who publicly congratulated him on his victory.

Hungary is more reliant on Russian energy than other European nations,
receiving around 80 percent of its gas from the Russian state-run Gazprom and
more than half of its oil from Russia. Russia has also heavily invested in the
expansion of a nuclear power plant in the country, which generates about half
of its electricity.

Show more

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

May 31, 2022, 6:36 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 6:36 a.m. ET

Dan Bilefsky and Matthew Mpoke Bigg

## Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine.

A day after the European Union agreed to punish Russia with an embargo on
billions of dollars’ worth of Russian oil, European leaders on Tuesday were
wrestling with how to help Ukraine export millions of tons of grain despite a
Russian naval blockade that is battering the Ukrainian economy and threatening
a growing global food crisis.

As European leaders wrapped up their meeting in Brussels, Ursula von der
Leyen, the president of the European Commission, the E.U.’s executive branch,
blamed Russia amid accusations that President Vladimir V. Putin is weaponizing
food.

The developing food crisis is “only the fault of Russia,” Ms. von der Leyen
said, adding that Russia was blocking 22 million tons of grain in Ukraine,
bombarding houses where the wheat is stored and mining fields.

Fears of a global food crisis are intensifying as Russian attacks on Ukraine’s
ability to produce and export grain have stymied the supply of one of the
world’s breadbaskets. But overcoming the blockade requires overcoming a host
of intractable challenges, including either confrontation or compromise with
Russia.

Failure to end the blockade could lead to hunger in some countries and stoke
political instability in others, in what may prove to be the most serious
global consequence yet of the Russian invasion.

While Western allies are seeking to help bolster Ukraine’s beleaguered
economy, fighting in the east of the country has reached pitched levels this
week, according to Ukrainian and Russian officials, as Russia directs the
might of its artillery and missile systems on an already devastated 75-mile
stretch of land straddling the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. For
weeks, Russian forces have rained fire on the last Ukrainian-controlled city
in the Luhansk region, Sievierodonetsk, forcing civilians unable to flee to
cower in basements and bomb shelters.

Serhiy Haidai, the head of Luhansk regional military administration,
acknowledged that Russian forces had occupied parts of Sievierodonetsk and
were “gradually moving toward downtown.” But he said they had yet to encircle
the city, leaving Ukrainian soldiers a route in and out.

In other developments:

  * Gazprom, Russia’s state-run energy giant, cut its supply early Tuesday to a Dutch company, GasTerra, because the company had refused to pay in rubles.

  * The Russian military, in its push to capture eastern Ukraine, is repeating the same mistakes it made during its failed attempt to capture the entire country, senior American officials say.

  * Top Biden administration officials are warning against international calls to seize Russian central bank assets and use them to fund Ukraine’s reconstruction.

Show more

### Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

May 31, 2022, 6:30 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 6:30 a.m. ET

Safak Timur

## Russia’s foreign minister will visit Turkey to discuss letting grain leave
Ukraine by sea.

Image

Grain bins in Boryspil, Ukraine.Credit...Nicole Tung for The New York Times

Russia’s foreign minister will visit Turkey next week to discuss the possible
release of Ukrainian grain from Black Sea ports, his Turkish counterpart said
on Tuesday — an effort that faces significant obstacles, but that if
successful could help alleviate a food crisis beginning to be felt around the
world.

Russia has seized some of Ukraine’s Black Sea ports and blockaded the rest,
trapping cargo vessels laden with corn, wheat, sunflower seeds, barley and
oats. That has caused exports from Ukraine, ordinarily among the world’s
biggest suppliers, to plummet, contributing to rising global food prices and
fears of widespread hunger far beyond Ukraine’s borders.

A military delegation will accompany the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V.
Lavrov, on June 8 to talk with Turkey’s defense ministry about establishing a
safe corridor for vessels carrying grain, the Turkish foreign minister, Mevlut
Cavusoglu, said in a televised interview.

The announcement came one day after President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia told
his Turkish counterpart, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in a phone call that Russia was
ready to facilitate the transit of goods under the coordination of Turkey.

Although the presence of sea mines around Odesa, Ukraine’s most important
Black Sea port, puts any such operation at risk, Mr. Cavusoglu said they could
be cleared within two weeks.

The political obstacles placed by Russia appear more complicated to work
around: It is demanding the removal of sanctions on its export vessels and
wants to avoid the possibility that Ukrainian grain ships will return carrying
weapons.

“We have learned last night that both Putin and Zelensky can cooperate” on the
matter of grains, Mr. Cavusoglu said, referring to the Russian leader and
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine.

The United Nations suggested this month that it could cooperate with Russia,
Turkey and Ukraine to help reach a compromise, and Turkey has agreed in
principle to be part of that effort.

Show more

![Carlotta Gall](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/10/multimedia/author-
carlotta-gall/author-carlotta-gall-thumbLarge.png)

May 31, 2022, 5:00 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 5:00 a.m. ET

Carlotta Gall

## Even as Russia bears down in the East, some Ukrainians stay behind.

Image

Olena Tyvaniuk walking home to her apartment in the eastern Ukrainian city of
Bakhmut. She is not leaving because she cannot find medicine for her 48-year-
old son, who has schizophrenia.Credit...Finbarr O’Reilly for The New York
Times

BAKHMUT, Ukraine — The volunteers listened patiently to the pensioner and
stuffed a frozen chicken into her shopping bag.

Olena Tyvaniuk, 70, a slight woman with a stoop, explained tearfully that she
needed more than food. She needed drugs. “I have a son, he is 48, he is a
paranoid schizophrenic,” she said. “I need medication for him.”

As the towns and cities of eastern Ukraine empty out in the face of the
Russian offensive, some residents are choosing to stay on. Like Ms. Tyvaniuk,
some are trapped by medical imperatives. Or they are too poor to leave. Or,
disillusioned by the longstanding corruption of Ukrainian officials, they
think things can’t be worse under the Russians.

Bakhmut, just 10 miles from the front, is largely deserted. There are few cars
on the streets except for military vehicles; shops and banks are boarded up.
Only one or two cafes and supermarkets are still open.

The only pharmacy is at the hospital where wounded soldiers are brought in
from the front. Recently, bloodstained stretchers were propped up against a
wall where a wounded soldier, his face bloody and swollen, swathed in
bandages, smoked a cigarette with friends.

Yet in the middle of war, even as artillery booms not far away, civilians
still walk by in the street, sometimes even with a child in tow.

Image

Bloodied military stretchers outside a hospital in Bakhmut, in the Donbas
region.Credit...Finbarr O’Reilly for The New York Times

Ms. Tyvaniuk said her son, who barely leaves his room, was refusing to leave.
His medication was running out and the only pharmacy open in the town did not
stock the medicine he needed, she said. He had enough left for only four days
and was down to cutting slices from his remaining tablets.

“He does not understand the whole situation,” she said. “He does not even know
his own address. I cannot leave him, and I never will leave him.”

Ukrainian officials have repeatedly called on civilians to leave eastern
Ukraine as Russia has turned the full strength of its forces on seizing the
region. But a portion of the population stubbornly refuses to go.

“Those who wanted to go have already gone,” said Ruslan, 42, a volunteer with
the Union of Ukrainian Churches who drives people to shelters in western
Ukraine. He said his group had evacuated 1,000 people from the Bakhmut area
over the past month.

Yet of 20 people who had requested evacuation with his organization on
Saturday, only nine took up the offer, he said. He had just risked the drive
to the frontline town of Siversk to collect people, but came back empty. “No
one wants to go,” he said.

Image

A volunteer from a church group organizing the evacuation of civilians from
frontline towns trying to find medicine for Ms. Tyvaniuk.Credit...Finbarr
O’Reilly for The New York Times

He asked that only his first name be published for fear of retribution from
the Russian side.

Most of those remaining are the poor, the old and the infirm, volunteers and
health workers said.

“We mostly see the elderly people seeking all kinds of support,” said Islam
Alaraj, program manager for psychosocial support in Ukraine for the
International Committee of the Red Cross. “They are the most vulnerable and
they have plenty of health issues, and they have added psychological issues
above that.”

For the most part, Ukrainian health facilities around the country, including
psychiatric facilities, are still functional and receiving outside support,
Ms. Alaraj said. But as fighting shifts, reaching those in need is becoming
more difficult.

“This context is changing in a very fast way,” she said, “and we don’t know
all locations and we don’t have access to all locations.”

Many residents interviewed said they could not afford to rent an apartment
elsewhere, and feared losing everything they owned if they abandoned their
homes. They also voiced distrust of promises of assistance from aid groups or
the government.

Image

A Ukrainian soldier walking past cars that were blown up at a complex in
Bakhmut when it was bombed by Russian forces.Credit...Finbarr O’Reilly for The
New York Times

“They say they do not have money, and that people will deceive them when they
get there,” Ruslan said.

“Some of them are waiting for the Russians,” he added. “Let’s face it, there
are those who just sit in their basements and wait for someone to bring them
humanitarian aid. And for them it does not matter who passes them a package of
aid, Russia or Ukraine.”

Police officers serving until last week in the town of Sievierodonetsk said
they saw the mood shifting as Russian forces were poised on the edge of the
city. They abandoned a last evacuation when residents asked for extra
guarantees.

“We don’t force anyone,” Chief Oleh Hryhorov of the regional police said.
“Some sympathize with the other side.”

Russian troops were flying drones over the town to gather information on
Ukrainian positions and some residents were acting as informers for Russia, he
said. Already anticipating a Russian takeover, some residents were reluctant
to talk to foreign journalists, he said.

In the town of Siversk, north of Bakhmut and close to the front line, a
storekeeper suddenly shooed away customers and closed her doors in the middle
of the morning for “stocktaking.” A volunteer ferrying medicines to families
by bicycle said people were fearful of every interaction.

Image

Ukrainian service members at a food kiosk in Bakhmut.Credit...Finbarr O’Reilly
for The New York Times

Several Ukrainians interviewed expressed bitter disaffection with their
government. Many said they could barely survive on their pension, which
amounts to as little as $70 a month.

Lyudmila Krilyshkina, 71, displaced after her home burned down in a rocket
attack, wept as she complained that she was not able to draw her pension in
Bakhmut. Since the shops were taking only cash, she could not buy food for
herself and her parents, she said.

“They need to think of the people,” she said. “We understand there is a war
but how are we supposed to survive?”

Another woman waiting to be evacuated complained that only voluntary
organizations were helping the people, and that government officials were
doing nothing. She asked not to be named for fear of retribution.

Disillusionment with previous corrupt governments helped propel President
Volodymyr Zelensky to power in Ukraine. Since the Russian invasion, popular
support for him has soared as the country has overwhelmingly backed his
determination to fight. Yet there remains a deep, latent cynicism for the
government and officials in Ukraine.

Ms. Tvyaniuk said she had spent 12 years fighting for justice after a corrupt
court ruled against her and her daughter. Her daughter had successfully sued
her former husband for alimony and child care payments but the police never
enforced the court order and a judge helped falsify documents to overturn the
ruling.

Image

Ms. Tyvaniuk walking home to her apartment after being unable to find medicine
for her son.Credit...Finbarr O’Reilly for The New York Times

“The police protected the courts and the courts protected the police,” she
said. “This happened under Ukrainian rule, and now I don’t know if it would be
better under Russian rule or Ukrainian.”

“We don’t know what to expect,” said Ihor, 44, an unemployed laborer sitting
outside his apartment block. But he said he and his partner, Olha, 60, would
stay and live under Russian rule if its troops seized Bakhmut, adding, “What
else is there?”

He complained that the Ukrainian leaders were corrupt and had robbed the
country and its workers. “They stole and put everything in their pockets,” he
said. “And if Russia takes over, that will be finished.”

Show more

### Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

May 31, 2022, 4:54 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 4:54 a.m. ET

Matina Stevis-Gridneff and Marc Santora

## Europe dials up the cost of war for Russia and financial support for
Ukraine.

Image

Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, and Charles
Michel, president of the European Council, in Brussels on
Tuesday.Credit...John Thys/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

BRUSSELS — After adopting a sweeping embargo on Russian oil, European Union
leaders continuing their summit in Brussels on Tuesday are set to seek further
ways to tighten the economic vise on the Kremlin while also looking to prop up
Ukraine’s economy, which has been strangled by the Russian invasion.

After working late into the night on Monday to secure agreement on the oil
embargo, leaders returned Tuesday morning to confront a thicket of complicated
issues related to Ukraine, including looking for ways to unblock huge amounts
of grain stuck at Ukrainian ports that are under Russian blockade.

Ukraine produces around 12 percent of the world’s wheat, 15 percent of its
corn and half its sunflower oil. The United Nations has warned that shortages
created by the Russian blockade could lead to famine in some of the world’s
most fragile nations.

At the same time, European leaders are working to expand broad economic
support to bolster the Ukrainian economy.

Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal of Ukraine said this week that about one-third of
the basic economy in the country had stopped functioning and the country’s
economic output had been nearly slashed in half. At the same time, the cost of
the humanitarian crisis grows daily. The direct damage war has inflicted on
Ukraine’s infrastructure and economy, he said, stands at about $600 billion.

The European Union has been assembling a support package for the
reconstruction of Ukraine, which leaders said on Monday would be as large as
$9.7 billion to be delivered over the course of 2022 alone.

Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, the E.U.
executive arm, said that the assistance package would be coordinated with
similar efforts from the United States and others, and said it was clear that
“investment comes with reform,” hinting at concerns about corruption and
governance in Ukraine that long predated the invasion.

At an intense summit that ended around midnight Monday, European leaders
agreed to ban the vast majority of Russian oil imports, delivering billions’
worth of pain to the Kremlin’s finances.

“We want to stop the Russian war machine and stop the financing of this
Russian military capacity by implementing sanctions which aim to put pressure
on the Kremlin,” said Charles Michel, president of the European Council, which
brings together the bloc’s national leaders, late Monday after the deal was
announced.

The measure is the capstone of the bloc’s sixth package of sanctions since
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24. It includes other measures that will
hurt Russia’s economy, notably barring the country’s largest lender, Sberbank,
from the Swift messaging platform that facilitates international transactions
alongside two more banks.

The European Union will also phase out the offer of various services such as
insurance to Russian entities by European Union companies, and ban E.U. firms
from insuring Russian oil transfers.

With the European Union and others preparing to hand over billions to Ukraine
in the middle of a war, Ms. von der Leyen stressed the importance of
monitoring the funds — a demand by governments in Europe.

“Reform of the administrative capacity, the judicial independence, to fight
corruption, to create a conducive environment for the business sector,” she
said, adding: “Here, it is important that we really stand together to give
Ukraine a fair chance to rise from the ashes and to be able to really leapfrog
forward what reconstruction is concerned in investment, but also in the
improvement of the state of Ukraine.”

Show more

![Matthew Mpoke Bigg](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/03/01/reader-
center/author-matthew-bigg/author-matthew-bigg-thumbLarge-v2.png)

May 31, 2022, 4:37 a.m. ET

May 31, 2022, 4:37 a.m. ET

Matthew Mpoke Bigg

Reporting from Krakow, Poland

The Russian gas giant Gazprom cut its supply at 6 a.m. on Tuesday to the Dutch
energy company GasTerra, a spokesman for the Dutch company said. GasTerra, an
energy wholesale company and trader of energy sources, said on Monday that it
had refused a Gazprom request to settle contracts in rubles, and the Russian
company said in response that it would discontinue its supply.

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png)

May 30, 2022, 9:05 p.m. ET

May 30, 2022, 9:05 p.m. ET

The New York Times

## Russian attacks in eastern Ukraine bring destruction and death to daily
life.

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/30/world/30ukraine-blog-stack-
photos-1/30ukraine-
photos-4-mobileMasterAt3x.jpg?auto=webp&quality=90)![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/30/world/30ukraine-
blog-stack-photos-2/30ukraine-
photos-8-mobileMasterAt3x.jpg?auto=webp&quality=90)![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/30/world/30ukraine-
blog-stack-photos-4/30ukraine-
photos-9-mobileMasterAt3x.jpg?auto=webp&quality=90)![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/30/world/30ukraine-
blog-stack-photos-3/30ukraine-
photos-3-mobileMasterAt3x.jpg?auto=webp&quality=90)

Credit...Photographs by Nicole Tung, Ivor Prickett, Finbarr O'Reilly and Diego
Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times

Ukrainians in the eastern region of the country have spent the last week
dealing with destruction, injury and death as Russian forces continue their
attempts to take over the Donbas.

In the Saltivka neighborhood of Kharkiv, one family’s car rested on its front
against a house after a shell exploded next to it. Saltivka came under weeks
of sustained bombardment by Russian forces until they were pushed back from
the edge of the city earlier this month.

Emergency personnel loaded evacuees into a medical evacuation train run by
Doctors Without Borders at the Pokrovsk train station. Efforts to evacuate
sick, wounded and older residents from Pokrovsk and the rest of the Donetsk
region grow more urgent as Russian forces advanced.

Casualties fill hospitals or, in the worst cases, graveyards. Yurii Kaniuk, a
27-year-old soldier, was buried Saturday in Mykolaiv, by his mother and
father, Stefaniia and Ihor Kaniuk.

On the front lines, soldiers spent their time between fighting watching the
horizon for activity, sometimes aided by a cigarette. Members of the 95th Air
Assault infantry have been sleeping in a farm building at night and hiding
from Russian drones during the day.

Show more

  * Give this article

  *   * 

## Site Information Navigation

  * © 2022 The New York Times Company

  * NYTCo
  * Contact Us
  * Accessibility
  * Work with us
  * Advertise
  * T Brand Studio
  * Your Ad Choices
  * Privacy Policy
  * Terms of Service
  * Terms of Sale
  * Site Map
  * Canada
  * International
  * Help
  * Subscriptions

