Skip to main content

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-
yorker/assets/logo.f1893bac6dafe13d6d5bad671a5bee2345efa44d.svg)

  * Newsletter

Story Saved

To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories

Close Alert

Close

Sign In

Search

Search

  * News
  * Books & Culture
  * Fiction & Poetry
  * Humor & Cartoons
  * Magazine
  * Puzzles & Games
  * Video
  * Podcasts
  * Archive
  * Goings On
  * Shop

Open Navigation Menu

Menu

Story Saved

To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories

Close Alert

Close

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-yorker/assets/logo-
header.6e34c81346bc43475ffd572e6c2eb3e125927148.svg)

New Yorker Favorites

  * A Self-Induced Abortion
  * A Texas Teen’s Abortion Odyssey
  * The Marked Woman
  * Russia’s House of Shadows

Politics and More Podcast

# Jane Mayer and Evan Osnos on the New January 6th Revelations

![](https://media.newyorker.com/photos/59e12fa4dee52728165932e8/1:1/w_270%2Cc_limit/glasser-
susan-01.png)

With Susan B. Glasser

June 10, 2022

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Email

  * Print

  * Save Story

Save this story for later.

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Email

  * Print

  * Save Story

Save this story for later.

#### Content

This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.

 _Download a transcript._

 _Listen and subscribe:_ Apple | Spotify | Google | Wherever You Listen

 _Sign up_ _to receive our weekly newsletter of the best New Yorker podcasts._

* * *

![A  crowd on the Mall in Washington D.C. listening to a speech by Donald
Trump on January 6
2021.](https://media.newyorker.com/photos/62a237591f64a668380ea782/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/Politics-
more-Jan6.jpg)

Photograph by Ashley Gilbertson / VII / Redux

For months, the House select committee on January 6th has examined Donald
Trump’s efforts to overturn the results of the 2020 election and cling to
power. Roughly a thousand witnesses have been interviewed—including Jared
Kushner and Ivanka Trump. Tens of thousands of documents have also been
reviewed, such as text messages from the former White House chief of staff
Mark Meadows. The committee held its first public hearing on Thursday night
and presented some of what it has learned. Representative Jamie Raskin had
promised that the findings would “blow the roof off the House.” _The New
Yorker’s_ Washington correspondents Jane Mayer and Evan Osnos join guest host
Susan B. Glasser to discuss the revelations.

## New Yorker Favorites

  * When abortion is criminalized, women make desperate choices.

  * Of course the Constitution has nothing to say about abortion.

  * The study that debunks most anti-abortion arguments.

  * How the idea of Hell has reshaped the way we think.

  * A prized daughter of the Westboro Baptist Church came to question its beliefs.

  * Is Ginni Thomas a threat to the Supreme Court?

Sign up for our daily newsletter to receive the best stories from _The New
Yorker_.

More:PodcastsCapitol Riot2020 ElectionDonald TrumpHouse of Representatives

### Susan B. Glasser

Sign up for reporting and commentary on news and politics in Washington,
delivered to your in-box.

E-mail address

Sign up

By signing up, you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy & Cookie
Statement.

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-yorker/assets/logo-
reverse.f915b516b6ca9c0c2a9bdf9b749519365b2b2e4a.svg)

Sections

  * News
  * Books & Culture
  * Fiction & Poetry
  * Humor & Cartoons
  * Magazine
  * Crossword
  * Video
  * Podcasts
  * Archive
  * Goings On

More

  * Customer Care
  * Shop The New Yorker
  * Buy Covers and Cartoons
  * Condé Nast Store
  * Digital Access
  * Newsletters
  * Jigsaw Puzzle
  * RSS
  * Site Map

  * About
  * Careers
  * Contact
  * F.A.Q.
  * Media Kit
  * Press
  * Accessibility Help
  * Condé Nast Spotlight

© 2022 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and
Your California Privacy Rights. _The New Yorker_ may earn a portion of sales
from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate
Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced,
distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior
written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Snapchat

  * YouTube

  * Instagram

Do Not Sell My Personal Info

