Sections

SEARCH

Skip to contentSkip to site index

Politics

Log in

Today’s Paper

Politics|A Recession Would Hurt Democrats. Some Warn It’d Also Hurt Democracy.

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/16/us/politics/recession-biden-trump-
democracy-fed.html

  * Give this article

  *   * 

### The U.S. Economy Today

  * Inflation: What to Know
  * What is a Recession?
  * High Gas Prices, Explained
  * How to Invest Now

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Supported by

Continue reading the main story

# A Recession Would Hurt Democrats. Some Warn It’d Also Hurt Democracy.

By trying to tame inflation, some commentators say, the Federal Reserve could
bring about a recession — just as an unrepentant Donald Trump appears to be
eyeing another White House bid.

  *  **Send any friend a story**

As a subscriber, you have **10 gift articles** to give each month. Anyone can
read what you share.

Give this article

  *   *   * Read in app

![Drivers at a Costco in Hawthorne, Calif., this week were paying nearly $6 a
gallon for
gas.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/06/16/multimedia/16onpolitics-
inflation02/16onpolitics-
inflation02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

Drivers at a Costco in Hawthorne, Calif., this week were paying nearly $6 a
gallon for gas.Credit...Patrick T. Fallon/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

![Blake
Hounshell](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/01/01/us/politics/blake-
hounshell/blake-hounshell-thumbLarge-v2.png)

By Blake Hounshell

June 16, 2022

Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, made the understatement of
the year on Wednesday when he noted offhandedly to reporters, “Clearly, people
do not like inflation.”

And how.

According to Fox News’s latest national poll, 41 percent of registered voters
said that “inflation and higher prices” represented the most important issue
influencing their ballot decision in November. Just 12 percent of voters
called guns their top priority, the second-place issue. Seventy-one percent
disapproved of the job President Biden is doing on inflation.

This is not exactly a vote of confidence in the federal government. In the
past, this level of public dissatisfaction has typically led to major
political upheaval.

Inflation ran at a rate of 8.6 percent in May, the fastest annual pace in four
decades. Voters do not seem to be buying the White House’s argument, backed up
by the Fed and places like the World Bank, that global factors beyond Biden’s
control like the pandemic, supply-chain crises and the war in Ukraine are
driving the increase in prices.

Nor do they seem to be giving the administration much credit for an
unemployment rate that is down to 3.6 percent, just a tick above its
prepandemic level.

The Fed might be Biden’s best hope. After the Federal Open Market Committee
announced on Wednesday that it would raise short-term interest rates by three-
quarters of a percentage point, Powell said the Fed’s goal was to bring
inflation closer to its 2 percent target while keeping the labor market
“strong.”

He hastened to add: “We’re not trying to induce a recession now. Let’s be
clear about that.”

###  **‘A democracy-wrecking election’**

Yet some commentators, notably David Frum of The Atlantic, have begun to fret
that in trying to tame inflation, the Fed will do exactly that — start a
recession, just in time to doom Biden or whomever Democrats nominate in his
stead in 2024.

Frum noted the historically tight link between economic growth and a
president’s chances of re-election. Citing the possibility that an unrepentant
Donald Trump will run again, he argued that a downturn this year or next could
result in “a democracy-wrecking election the next year.”

He concluded: “So the Federal Reserve has a more than usual obligation this
week to measure its policy appropriately. A miscalculation in monetary policy
in 2022 could reverberate through long ages of American history ahead.”

Others have criticized Biden’s decision last fall to nominate Powell for a
second term, leaving the president handcuffed in blaming the Fed chair for the
parlous state of the economy. Powell was, after all, Trump’s pick for Fed
chair — and Biden, the thinking goes, could have thrown him overboard and
started afresh.

## Understand Inflation and How It Impacts You

  *  **Inflation 101:** What’s driving inflation in the United States? What can slow the rapid price gains? Here’s what to know.
  *  **Inflation Calculator:** How you experience inflation can vary greatly depending on your spending habits. Answer these seven questions to estimate your personal inflation rate.
  *  **An Economic Cliff** **:** Inflation is expected to remain high later this year even as the economy slows and layoffs rise. For many Americans, it's going to hurt.
  *  **Greedflation:** Some experts say that big corporations are supercharging inflation by jacking up prices. We take a closer look at the issue. ****

That would have been a very Trump-like move. Powell resisted months of intense
pressure from the 45th president to lower interest rates, including comments
describing the low-key Fed chairman as an “enemy” of the United States.
Central bankers prize their distance from politics, mindful that their
credibility with financial institutions around the world is crucial to their
effectiveness.

So in renominating Powell, Biden made sure to emphasize his respect for his
institutional prerogatives. “My plan is to address inflation,” the president
said. “It starts with a simple proposition: Respect the Fed and respect the
Fed’s independence.”

Image

Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, with President Biden last
month. Some Democrats had urged Biden to choose a Fed chair of his
own.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

###  **The Fed’s relationship with politics**

Let’s set aside the fraught question of whether Trump’s re-election could
bring about the end of American democracy. Does the Fed, in fact, have an
“obligation” to consider how its actions might affect the U.S. political
system?

On a simple reading of the law, not really. The Federal Reserve Act gives the
Fed the authority to regulate the nation’s money supply, to foster the “long-
run potential” of the U.S. economy and to promote the goals of “maximum
employment, stable prices and moderate long-term interest rates.”

Frederic Mishkin, a former member of the Fed’s board of governors, no doubt
spoke for many in the finance world when he wrote in an email, “I most
strongly disagree with the view that the Federal Reserve should adjust its
policy to favor or harm any politician.”

He added, “The Fed should be as apolitical as possible, and its policy focus
should be on stabilizing both inflation and output fluctuations, as is
mandated by congressional legislation.”

But it’s hard to divorce the Fed from its historical roots, founded as it was
in an era of great political turmoil driven by frequent financial panics.

The Fed was successfully established in 1913 because President Woodrow Wilson
won the assent of William Jennings Bryan, the most influential populist leader
of the time, by guaranteeing that government officials appointed by the
president, not private sector bankers, would run the board.

At Bryan’s insistence, the Fed was also decentralized into 12 regional
“reserve banks” to dilute the influence of New York financiers and promote
lending to farmers across the country.

“It’s certainly embedded in the original idea of the Federal Reserve that it
be broadly responsive to the needs of the citizenry,” said Eric Rauchway, a
professor of history at the University of California, Davis and the author of
“Why the New Deal Matters.”

## Inflation F.A.Q.

* * *

Card 1 of 5

 **What is inflation? **Inflation is a loss of purchasing power over time,
meaning your dollar will not go as far tomorrow as it did today. It is
typically expressed as the annual change in prices for everyday goods and
services such as food, furniture, apparel, transportation and toys.

 **What causes inflation? **It can be the result of rising consumer demand.
But inflation can also rise and fall based on developments that have little to
do with economic conditions, such as limited oil production and supply chain
problems.

 **Is inflation bad? **It depends on the circumstances. Fast price increases
spell trouble, but moderate price gains can lead to higher wages and job
growth.

 **How does inflation affect the poor? **Inflation can be especially hard to
shoulder for poor households because they spend a bigger chunk of their
budgets on necessities like food, housing and gas.

 **Can inflation affect the stock market? **Rapid inflation typically spells
trouble for stocks. Financial assets in general have historically fared badly
during inflation booms, while tangible assets like houses have held their
value better.

  *   *   *   *   * 

The Fed came of age between the two world wars — a period dominated by the
determination of political and economic leaders on both sides of the Atlantic
Ocean to halt the rise of communism on the left and fascism on the right. And
though the central bank bears a great deal of responsibility for the stock
market crash of 1929 and the ensuing Great Depression, monetary policy was an
inextricable part of that effort.

###  **What would Keynes do?**

One of the intellectual giants of the interwar era was John Maynard Keynes,
who was driven by his quest to prevent another global conflict and hobble
authoritarian figures like Benito Mussolini in Italy and, closer to home, the
British fascist leader Sir Oswald Mosley.

“All of his views about economics are reverse-engineered from his views about
politics,” said Zachary Carter, the author of a biography of the famed British
economist.

Keynes first became known for “The Economic Consequences of the Peace,” his
1919 book warning that the harsh terms of that year’s Treaty of Versailles
would sow the seeds of dictatorship and future wars.

In 1922, writing from a disastrous postwar reconstruction conference in Genoa,
Italy, Keynes predicted that if Europe’s growing militarism were left
unchecked, “sooner or later an economic disease spreads which ends in some
variant of the _delirium tremens_ of revolution.”

That was six months, Carter noted, before Mussolini’s Black Shirts marched on
Rome.

In the 1930s, the primary economic problems were unemployment and deflation —
and the architects of the New Deal, Keynes among them as a close confidant of
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, sought to alleviate both by stimulating
inflation. Roosevelt secured, through an amendment to the Agricultural
Adjustment Act of 1933, a degree of presidential authority over monetary
policy that would be unimaginable today.

One of Roosevelt’s advisers, Rauchway said, told the president he faced a
stark choice: “A rise in prices or a rise in dictators.”

Image

## What to read

  * In its third hearing, the House committee investigating the Capitol riot laid out evidence this afternoon that Donald Trump was told that his plan to overturn the 2020 election was illegal, but pressured Mike Pence to go along with it anyway, whipping up a violent mob against him when he refused to comply. Read the latest updates.

  * The gallows erected in front of the Capitol, where rioters chanted “Hang Mike Pence,” was one of the most chilling images to emerge from of a day of violence. Catie Edmondson explores the mystery and meaning of the ominous structure.

  * Some Democrats are pursuing an enormously risky strategy: promoting far-right candidates in G.O.P. primaries in hopes that extremists will be easier for Democrats to beat in November. Jonathan Weisman explains.

Image

 **— Blake**

 _Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of?
We’d love to hear from you. Email us at_ _onpolitics@nytimes.com_ _._

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## Site Information Navigation

  * © 2022 The New York Times Company

  * NYTCo
  * Contact Us
  * Accessibility
  * Work with us
  * Advertise
  * T Brand Studio
  * Your Ad Choices
  * Privacy Policy
  * Terms of Service
  * Terms of Sale
  * Site Map
  * Canada
  * International
  * Help
  * Subscriptions

