Skip to main content

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-
yorker/assets/logo.f1893bac6dafe13d6d5bad671a5bee2345efa44d.svg)

  * Newsletter

Story Saved

To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories

Close Alert

Close

Sign In

Search

Search

  * News
  * Books & Culture
  * Fiction & Poetry
  * Humor & Cartoons
  * Magazine
  * Puzzles & Games
  * Video
  * Podcasts
  * Archive
  * Goings On
  * Shop

Open Navigation Menu

Menu

Story Saved

To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories

Close Alert

Close

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-yorker/assets/logo-
header.6e34c81346bc43475ffd572e6c2eb3e125927148.svg)

New Yorker Favorites

  * A Self-Induced Abortion
  * A Texas Teen’s Abortion Odyssey
  * The Marked Woman
  * Russia’s House of Shadows

Comment

June 13, 2022 Issue

# How Will Trump’s Primary Messages Affect the Midterms?

The former President has been sowing white-grievance politics and lies about
election corruption from Pennsylvania to Wyoming, setting the scene for a
potential constitutional crisis.

![](https://media.newyorker.com/photos/59097b79c14b3c606c10945e/1:1/w_270%2Cc_limit/coll-
steve.png)

By Steve Coll

June 5, 2022

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Email

  * Print

  * Save Story

Save this story for later.

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Email

  * Print

  * Save Story

Save this story for later.

![Portrait of Trump looking at his
phone.](https://media.newyorker.com/photos/629a7cc8b77fe8ea8df69f62/master/w_2560%2Cc_limit/220613_r40539web.jpg)

Illustration by João Fazenda

Since late April, citizens nostalgic for Donald Trump’s Twitter feed have been
able to sate themselves on Truth Social, a platform launched in February by
one of Trump’s companies. After an initial period of silence, the former
President now “truths” and “retruths” multiple times a day for his three
million-plus followers. (He had about eighty-nine million followers on Twitter
when the company suspended his account permanently after January 6th, for fear
that it would inspire further violent acts.) His posts are as replete as ever
with lies and rants, served up in his familiar vernacular: “Our Elections are
Rigged, Inflation is _RAMPANT_ , gas prices and food costs are ‘through the
roof,’ our Military ‘Leadership’ is Woke, our Country is going to _HELL_ ,” he
recently mused.

Truth Social is a characteristic Trump business: opaque and unconvincing. Last
fall, its parent company announced a planned merger with a “blank check”
company—a Wall Street concoction that can sell shares to the public with less
scrutiny than other exchange-listed firms. That deal hasn’t closed yet;
meanwhile, the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether the
announcement was on the up-and-up. A recent regulatory filing states that
Truth Social’s prospects rely heavily on Trump’s appeal to his fans, yet Trump
himself seems equivocal about his project. According to the filing, once Trump
posts something on Truth Social, he is “generally obligated” not to post the
same message on other social-media platforms—for six hours.

Trump may be keeping his options open because he is reportedly itching to run
for President again in 2024, and his forced exile from Twitter and Facebook
has clearly sapped his reach. His success on Twitter arose from his capacity
to outrage or amuse a global audience of both enemies and acolytes (Arnold
Schwarzenegger and Kim Jong Un, as well as your Trumpist cousin across town).
On Truth Social, he reprises old hits—the Mueller “witch hunt,” weak
Democrats—for homogenous loyalists. The vibe so far suggests punk rock on
Broadway. Trump appears to be ginning up a celebrity feud with Elon Musk, who
has made moves to buy Twitter and has said that he would allow Trump to
return. The former President insists that he’s not interested. “They want me
back so badly,” he told a crowd in Wyoming in late May. “And I’m not going
back, because we have Truth!”

He was in Wyoming to rally _MAGA_ voters to his revenge campaign against the
Republican congresswoman Liz Cheney, one of the ten House Republicans who
voted to impeach him in the last days of his Presidency. She is now the vice-
chair of the House select committee investigating the January insurrection,
which will hold televised hearings beginning this week. Wyoming’s Republican
primary is on August 16th, and Trump has endorsed Harriet Hageman, a former
Never Trumper who now says that she doesn’t know who really won in 2020.
Hageman has a large polling lead, but Cheney has a formidable campaign war
chest. Earlier this year, Trump failed to persuade Wyoming’s legislature to
rewrite state rules that allow Democrats and Independents to participate in
the Republican primary, so crossover votes may help Cheney.

As the self-described “king of endorsements,” Trump has drawn an eclectic
parade of supplicants to Mar-a-Lago, where he performs a version of his role
on “The Apprentice.” He has called his record of backing candidates who won
primaries held in May “very big and successful,” but the lopsided numbers he
brags about (“for the ‘Cycle,’ 100 Wins, 6 Losses”) include many nods to
unopposed or safe Republican incumbents, whose victories were already assured.
In highly contested races, his interventions have had mixed results. His
support helped J. D. Vance win Ohio’s Republican primary for a U.S. Senate
seat. On Friday, his candidate Mehmet Oz was declared the winner of the Senate
primary in Pennsylvania, where, also with Trump’s blessing, Doug Mastriano, a
far-right Christian nationalist who paid for buses to carry protesters to
Washington on January 6th, won the Republican nomination for governor. He has
said that he had serious doubts about the legitimacy of Joe Biden’s victory in
2020; if Mastriano wins in November, he will wield considerable authority over
his state’s election administration.

Yet Trump failed dramatically to put his men in position for state offices in
Georgia, where he tried to oust Brian Kemp, the incumbent Republican governor,
by backing David Perdue, a former U.S. senator. (Trump’s pick for the Senate,
Herschel Walker, did win his primary.) In 2020, Kemp repeatedly withstood
Trump’s pressure to change Georgia’s Presidential-election results. Former
Vice-President Mike Pence travelled to the state last month to appear with
Kemp, making a show of his estrangement from Trump, a break that became
irreparable when Pence declined to overturn Biden’s victory in the Electoral
College. Kemp crushed Perdue by more than fifty percentage points. Georgia’s
secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, who famously ignored Trump’s plea
during a phone call to “find” enough votes to tip the state his way, also
comfortably defeated a Trump-backed challenger.

An optimistic reading is that Georgia’s Republican voters were, at the least,
disinterested in Trump’s unrelenting obsession with his loss to President
Biden. Yet, according to a poll from last year by the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst, well more than half of Republican voters nationwide
believe Trump’s Big Lie that Biden’s victory was rigged. Trump’s grip on
Trumpism may be loosening a little, but the malignancy he has seeded in
American politics cannot be eradicated anytime soon. His talking points about
corrupt elections resound daily across right-wing media. Republican leaders
and candidates embrace his isolationism and his mobilization of white-
grievance politics. If Mastriano is elected, or if like-minded allies take
control of election machinery in other swing states, the stage could be set
for another constitutional crisis around voting results in 2024, whether Trump
is the Republican Presidential nominee or not.

Trump apparently feels no compunction, as a former President, about
questioning the legitimacy of the nation’s courts or the rule of law. “Our
Legal System is _CORRUPT_ , our Judges (and Justices!) are highly partisan,
compromised or just plain scared,” he recently wrote on Truth Social. His new
platform may look like a cynical way to make money—the regulatory filing
warned investors of many potential hazards, citing the examples of Trump Plaza
and Trump Castle, among other past failures. But Trump’s abuse of Truth as a
business brand is trivial compared with his ongoing vandalism in the public
square. In November, his name won’t be on ballots, but voters will have to
decide once more whether to endorse his hold on our faltering democracy. ♦

Published in the print edition of the June 13, 2022, issue, with the headline
“The Trump Primaries.”

## New Yorker Favorites

  * When abortion is criminalized, women make desperate choices.

  * Of course the Constitution has nothing to say about abortion.

  * The study that debunks most anti-abortion arguments.

  * How the idea of Hell has reshaped the way we think.

  * A prized daughter of the Westboro Baptist Church came to question its beliefs.

  * Is Ginni Thomas a threat to the Supreme Court?

Sign up for our daily newsletter to receive the best stories from _The New
Yorker_.

![](https://media.newyorker.com/photos/59097b79c14b3c606c10945e/1:1/w_270%2Cc_limit/coll-
steve.png)

Steve Coll, a staff writer, is the dean of the Graduate School of Journalism
at Columbia University. His latest book is “Directorate S: The C.I.A. and
America’s Secret Wars in Afghanistan and Pakistan.”

More:2022 Midterm ElectionsPrimariesDonald
TrumpElectionsPoliticsPoliticiansRepublicans

### This Week’s Issue

Never miss a big _New Yorker_ story again. Sign up for This Week’s Issue and
get an e-mail every week with the stories you have to read.

E-mail address

Sign up

By signing up, you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy & Cookie
Statement.

![The New Yorker](/verso/static/the-new-yorker/assets/logo-
reverse.f915b516b6ca9c0c2a9bdf9b749519365b2b2e4a.svg)

Sections

  * News
  * Books & Culture
  * Fiction & Poetry
  * Humor & Cartoons
  * Magazine
  * Crossword
  * Video
  * Podcasts
  * Archive
  * Goings On

More

  * Customer Care
  * Shop The New Yorker
  * Buy Covers and Cartoons
  * Condé Nast Store
  * Digital Access
  * Newsletters
  * Jigsaw Puzzle
  * RSS
  * Site Map

  * About
  * Careers
  * Contact
  * F.A.Q.
  * Media Kit
  * Press
  * Accessibility Help
  * Condé Nast Spotlight

© 2022 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and
Your California Privacy Rights. _The New Yorker_ may earn a portion of sales
from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate
Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced,
distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior
written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Snapchat

  * YouTube

  * Instagram

Do Not Sell My Personal Info

