Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Coco Gauff encourages people 'to use their voice' after Roe v Wade ruling –
video

Sport

# Coco Gauff: ‘I don’t think I can change the world, but I can change some
people in it’

The unusually mature 18-year-old arrives at Wimbledon on top form and unafraid
to speak about the big subjects outside tennis

Simon Cambers

Sat 25 Jun 2022 15.00 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

It is three years since a 15-year-old Coco Gauff burst on to the scene at
Wimbledon, qualifying for the main draw of a grand slam for the first time,
knocking out Venus Williams in the first round and making it all the way to
the last 16. This year, she arrives at Wimbledon with a career-high ranking of
12, fresh from reaching her first grand slam final at the French Open, with
many tipping her to go one further.

For many players that pressure would be too much to handle but Gauff is not
your usual teenager. Even at 15 she seemed unusually mature in her handling of
the occasion and her many media duties, honest and happy to speak her mind,
not afraid to be herself whatever the subject.

‘Everything’s so different’: Wimbledon and the future of grass-court tennis

It is a trait that few leading sportsmen and women have. Many are often
terrified to be honest, perhaps through fear that their words may be used
against them or taken out of context. Gauff actively chooses to take a stand
on matters much bigger than tennis. As a 16-year-old she gave an unscripted
speech against police brutality toward Black people as part of the Black Lives
Matter movement. Last month, after reaching the French Open final she wrote on
the camera: “Peace. End gun violence. Coco.”

As a child, her father told her she could change the world with her racket.
After her semi-final win in Paris, Gauff said he told her: “I’m proud of you
and love what you wrote on the camera.” She does her research, so she knows
what she’s talking about.

“For a lot of things, before I speak out on something, I try to make sure I
have all the information,” Gauff says. “If I don’t know the answer, how I feel
about my opinion on a certain situation, I’d just rather say I don’t have
enough information.

“I’m thankful for the platform that I have and I know how many people that it
reaches. I’m aware of that. So I try to make sure I use it to speak out about
issues that can maybe slightly change some things. You know, I don’t think I’m
going to change the world. I’m not delusional, but I think it could change
some people in the world.”

Her words and actions have caught the attention of Billie Jean King, the
39-time grand slam champion across singles and doubles who led the foundation
of the WTA and who has been an activist, leader and motivator for the younger
players throughout her life. Greatness recognises greatness and in Paris this
month King explained why she admires Gauff so much.

“I love the fact that Coco uses tennis as a platform for social change and to
help others,” King said. “Of course I like that. I always want every
generation, both men and women, to step up, because sports is politics.
Politics is sport. So anybody who doesn’t think so, I don’t agree with them.
They could be right; I could be wrong. Sports is politics. Because people go,
well, you’re in sports. It’s different.”

Coco Gauff in action against Sloane Stephens in the quarter-final of the
French Open, where Gauff reached her first grand slam final.  Photograph: Ryan
Pierse/Getty Images

Gauff was touched by King’s words. “I probably wouldn’t even have the
opportunity to play, at least [not] to the extent that I am playing, if it
wasn’t for her and the other Original 9,” she says of the group of women who
in 1970 broke away and founded the forerunner of the WTA Tour. “So I’m super
thankful to get a shout out from her.

“I met her a couple of times, but every time I see her or meet her I get
chills just because I’m super grateful that she made that decision then,
because it’s kind of hard to go against the norm. They had nothing secured. So
having someone like her actually acknowledge me and congratulate me and say
she’s proud of me, not only how I am on the court, [but] off of court, means a
lot to me.”

As a high-profile young Black athlete, Gauff is an easy target for internet
trolls but it doesn’t seem to bother her. Her message on the camera in Paris,
she said, was about trying to reach as many people as possible.

“I don’t really care about the praise or the backlash,” she said. “Obviously
there was some backlash. People are like: ‘Oh, what’s one message going to
change anything?’ And I mean, I understand me writing on the camera isn’t
going to change or stop gun violence from happening. But it’s all about
getting the message out there and getting to the people in office who have the
actual power to change this.

“I know one thing is not going to change anything, but it’s not about me. It’s
about the bigger picture. So when I write these things, I don’t care about the
praise or the backlash that I get because I didn’t write it for me. I wrote it
for those people who lost their lives not only this year, but in the past.

“After the match I didn’t know what to write and I was like: ‘This is
something that I can write because I hope that change does happen.’ And I need
people to kind of hear my message and those people to kind of make the change
happen.”

At 18, Gauff is one of the youngest players toward the top of the game but it
seems she was born to lead, whether that be on the court or off it. It is a
mantle she is not frightened of and, in fact, actively embraces.

“I feel like my position in the world is a very privileged position and I’m
not taking anything for granted,” she says. “Seeing the way that my
grandparents and my parents grew up and other relatives grew up – I have a lot
of family who are veterans and part of some family following world war two and
Vietnam so I feel like the fact that they put their lives at risk, whatever I
say is not really putting my life at risk.

“I think just growing up around that and people even at a young age
encouraging me to speak out about things makes me not afraid to do it.”

But Gauff also said she does not believe that everyone should feel as if they
have to speak out if they are not comfortable doing so. “I think lately I feel
like we have this cancel culture thing where people [feel] if somebody doesn’t
speak out about something, they’re obviously against it,” she says. “It’s not
that. I think they’re just probably not comfortable with it. And that’s OK
too.

“That’s why there are activists and there are people who are just not
activists. I think it’s important that we don’t push people to do things that
they don’t want to do because then the message isn’t genuine and we get into
misinformation. And that’s really how misinformation is spread.”

Whatever Gauff does over the next two weeks, she will use the platform her
racket gives her. Tennis is lucky to have her.

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Sport
  * The Observer

  * Tennis
  * Coco Gauff
  * Wimbledon
  * Wimbledon 2022
  * interviews

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

