Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Search
icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, "Click to perform a search".

Insider logo The word "Insider".

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Subscribe  Subscribe

  * Business The word Business
  * Life The word Life
  * News The word News
  * Reviews The word Reviews

  * Business 
    * Tech
    * Finance
    * Markets
    * Strategy
    * Retail
    * Advertising
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
  * Life 
    * Entertainment
    * Culture
    * Travel
    * Food
    * Health
    * Parenting
    * Beauty
    * Style
  * News 
    * Politics
    * Military & Defense
    * Sports
    * Opinion
  * Reviews 
    * Tech
    * Streaming
    * Home
    * Kitchen
    * Style
    * Beauty
    * Gifts
    * Deals
    * Pets
    * Parenting
    * Coupons
    * Health
    * Learning
    * Hobbies & Crafts
    * Travel
  * All 
    * A-Z
    * Advertising
    * Business
    * Careers
    * Coupons
      * DoorDash
      * Walmart
      * Dell
      * Staples
      * Under Armour
    * Culture
    * Design
    * Entertainment
    * Executive Lifestyle
    * Finance
    * Food
    * Health
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
    * Latest
    * Life
    * Markets Insider
    * Media
    * Military & Defense
    * News
    * Opinion
    * People
    * Personal Finance
      * Banking
      * Credit Cards
      * Insurance
      * Investing
      * Loans
      * Mortgages
    * Politics
    * Premium
    * Retail
    * Reviews
    * Science
    * Sports
    * Strategy
    * Tech
    * Transportation
    * Travel
    * TV
      * Beauty Explorers
      * Best in Town
      * Bonkers Closets
      * Festival Foodies
      * Movies Insider
      * Pop Culture Decoded
      * The Making Of
      * The Ultimate List
    * Featured
    * Better Capitalism
    * Cities Connected
    * Insider TV
    * Master Your Money
    * Next Stop
    * Sustainable Finance
    * Transforming Business
    * About
    * About
    * Advertise
    * Careers
    * Contact Us
    * Corporate
    * Corrections Policy
    * Follow
    * RSS
    * Sitemap
    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Instagram
    * YouTube
    * LinkedIn
    * Subscriptions
    * Intelligence
    * Premium

US Markets Loading... H M S In the news

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous
/ next navigation options. HOMEPAGE

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Subscribe  Subscribe

Home  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes
previous / next navigation options. Politics

# RESULTS: Incumbents prevail in New Jersey congressional races

Madison Hall and  Kimberly Leonard

2022-06-08T15:32:55Z

Save Article Icon A bookmark Facebook Icon The letter F. Email icon An
envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.

Share icon An curved arrow pointing right.

Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. Twitter LinkedIn
icon The word "in". LinkedIn Fliboard icon A stylized letter F. Flipboard Link
icon An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url. Copy Link

Download the app

![2022 New Jersey
Primaries](https://i.insider.com/629e79a57bc6a80018b69a64?width=700)

Insider

Voters in New Jersey gave incumbents another shot at keeping their seats.

Incumbent Democratic Reps. Donald Norcross, Andy Kim, Donald Payne Jr., and
Tom Malinowski have prevailed in their primaries. The same was true for
Republican incumbent Reps. Jeff Van Drew and Chris Smith.

GOP primaries still haven't been called in Districts 5 and 11.

## The races and the stakes

New Jersey has 12 congressional districts — the current makeup of its US House
caucus is 10 Democrats and two Republicans. The GOP is trying to change that
ratio come November.

Of the 12 House races in New Jersey, only half of the incumbents were facing
primary challengers.

Norcross defeated challenger Mario DeSantis, a public school teacher, and will
face Republican Claire Gustafson in November.

Kim defeated progressive challenger Reuven Hendler and will face Republican
businessman Bob Healy in November. Payne defeated two primary challengers and
will face Republican David Pinckney in November.

Malinowski also prevailed in his primary, despite media coverage regarding his
failure to disclosure his stock trades. He defeated Roger Bacon, who worked as
a production mechanic technician and a realtor.

In November, he'll face Republican Thomas Kearn.

Van Drew will face off against Democrat Tim Alexander.

Unlike the other congressional districts in the state, the 8th Congressional
District had no incumbent and will almost assuredly go Democratic come
November. There were three Democratic candidates vying for the seat: Ane
Roseborough-Eberhard, David Ocampo Grajales, and Robert Menendez Jr., the son
of New Jersey's senior US Sen. Bob Menendez.

Mendendez Jr. ultimately prevailed — he had got much of the party's backing,
including Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy. In November he'll face Republican
Marcos Arroyo.

Republican Susan Kiley, a county commissioner, defeated two primary
challengers and in November will face Democratic Rep. Frank Pallone — who ran
unchallenged on Tuesday.

## What the experts said

According to Sabato's Crystal Ball at the University of Virginia Center for
Politics, there were no "toss-ups" in New Jersey's 2022 congressional races.
The prognosticators classified the races in the 2nd and 4th Congressional
Districts as "safe R," the race in the 7th Congressional District as "leans
R," and the remaining races as "likely D" or "safe D."

![A picture of a switch and lightbulb](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/shared/light-switch.png)

Sign up for notifications from Insider! Stay up to date with what you want to
know.

Subscribe to push notifications

Deal icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

Keep reading

Newsletter

Sign up for our newsletter to receive our top stories based on your reading
preferences — delivered daily to your inbox.

Loading Something is loading.

Email address

By clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as
well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy
Policy.

###  NOW WATCH: Inside Kim Jong Un's secretive childhood and family

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](https://i.insider.com/5f43ebbc89aff80028ab782f?width=1280&height=866&format=jpeg&auto=webp)

More: INSIDER Data New Jersey BI Graphics Rebecca Zisser

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Recommended Video

![Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/Insider-
logo-dark-opt.svg)

![Business Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/US/logos/BI-logo-dark-opt.svg)

Follow us on:

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/facebook.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/twitter.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/linkedin.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/youtube.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/instagram.svg)

![Download on the App Store](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/app-store-badge.svg)

![Get it on Google Play](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/google-play-badge.svg)

  * * Copyright © 2022 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
  * Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy and  Cookies Policy . 

  * Contact Us
  * Sitemap
  * Disclaimer
  * Accessibility
  * Commerce Policy
  * Advertising Policies
  * CA Privacy Rights
  * Coupons
  * Made in NYC
  * Jobs

  * Stock quotes by finanzen.net
  * Reprints & Permissions

  * International Editions:
  * United States US
  * International INTL
  * Asia AS
  * Deutschland & Österreich AT
  * Deutschland DE
  * España ES
  * India IN
  * Japan JP
  * México MX
  * Netherlands NL
  * Polska PL
  * South Africa ZA

![Insider.com TM Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-com-trademark-opt.svg)

![Insider-Inc Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-inc.svg)

![Business Insider DE Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/DE/logos/BI-DE-Black-on-Light-final-footer-logo-opt.svg)

