Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionNewly elected Australian opposition leader, Peter Dutton, with
deputy Sussan Ley. Photograph: Mike Bowers/The Guardian

Peter Dutton

# ‘True to our values’: partisan warrior elected as new leader of Australian
Liberals after crushing defeat

Peter Dutton, a former home affairs minister and hardliner, is trying to craft
a softer image, as he vows party will return to concerns of ‘forgotten
Australians’

Ben Smee

@BenSmee

Mon 30 May 2022 06.18 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

Australia’s defeated conservative party, the Liberals, has elected a partisan
warrior who has promised the party will return to the concerns of everyday
people in opposition.

On Monday, Peter Dutton, long one of the most well-known and divisive figures
in Australian politics, was elected unopposed to lead a Liberal party
reckoning with their loss to Labor, as well as a swathe of heartland inner-
city seats to independents and Greens promising climate action and government
accountability.

Peter Dutton, a ferocious partisan, is now trying to walk both sides of the
street | Katharine Murphy

“Our policies will be squarely aimed at the forgotten Australians in the
suburbs across Australia. Under my leadership the Liberal party will be true
to our values,” Dutton said.

“I have held a marginal seat for two decades and I know how to work with
people and how to achieve outcomes for local communities.”

Dutton’s reputation as a hardliner was forged during his time as minister for
immigration, and later home affairs. The former police officer from the state
of Queensland was the face of the Coalition’s border and national security
policies; steadfastly staring down criticism about Australia’s treatment of
asylum seekers in offshore detention.

As immigration minister, Dutton  argued in court against a child detainee in
offshore detention coming to Australia for critical treatment, arguing they
had not shown evidence of the seriousness of their condition. Dutton also
attracted controversy for using his ministerial intervention powers to save
two au pairs from deportation. At one point, he said asylum seeker women on
the island of Nauru were “trying it on” in claiming they were raped and needed
an abortion, as part of a ploy to get to Australia for medical treatment and
then changing their minds.

So entrenched was his aggressive political persona, that when Dutton first
challenged for the Liberal leadership in 2018, he immediately sought to
reframe his public image, promising to smile more and show a softer side. In
2019, his wife, Kirilly, told a Brisbane newspaper that “he’s no monster”.

Peter Dutton and wife, Kirilly, in the Courier Mail in 2018. Photograph:
Courier Mail

In his first press conference on Monday as leader, Dutton sought to further
temper that image, saying he had acted compassionately in hundreds of
immigration cases, and that media reports had not ever given a “complete
picture” of his work in the role.

“I’m not going to change, but I want people to see the entire person I am and
reserve and make their own judgments when they meet me,” Dutton said.

The son of a Brisbane builder, Dutton worked at his father’s business after
leaving school, then joined the Queensland police service, where he worked
with the drug squad, the sexual offenders squad and later the National Crime
Authority. These were experiences he relayed in his maiden speech to
parliament.

“I have seen the best and the worst that society has to offer,” Dutton told
parliament. “I have seen the wonderful, kind nature of people willing to offer
any assistance to those in their worst hour, and I have seen the sickening
behaviour displayed by people who, frankly, barely justify their existence in
our sometimes over tolerant society.”  
  
Throughout his political career, he has remained a ferocious partisan and an
outspoken advocate for conservative causes.

> You dirty lefties are too easy. Enjoy your weekend.
>
> — Peter Dutton (@PeterDutton_MP) December 9, 2011

Dutton was one of a handful of MPs who refused to attend the historic 2008
apology to the Indigenous Stolen Generations. On Monday, he said he had “made
a mistake in relation to the apology and largely that was because of my own
background and experience”.

In 2017, Dutton told chief executives, including Qantas boss Alan Joyce, to
stop using shareholders’ money to campaign for marriage equality. He said that
“productivity went up” when journalists at the Fairfax media group went on
strike in 2017. He also suggested the country was paying for immigration
“mistakes” made under Liberal prime minister Malcolm Fraser, citing the number
of people from Lebanese-Muslim backgrounds charged with “terrorist related
offences” when asked to clarify the comments in parliament. And he claimed
residents in the state of Victoria were scared to leave their homes due to
“African gang violence”.

Dutton was also famously caught on a hot mic joking about climate change and
Pacific island nations having “water lapping at your door”, for which he later
apologised.

More recently, as defence minister, he spoke hawkishly about China and
overruled a decision – in the wake of a damning report into alleged war crimes
by Australian special forces in Afghanistan – to strip meritorious service
citations from SAS soldiers.

## Facing a reckoning

Though he was defeated in 2018 in his tilt to become leader, he was elected
unopposed by the depleted party room on Monday. He leads a party shorn of
moderate MPs and one facing a reckoning – moderates say it must recalibrate to
the centre to win back heartland seats, while some rightwing commentators and
others have called for a more conservative shift to embrace voters who have
abandoned the Coalition for a collection of fringe parties.

Simon Birmingham, the most senior moderate in the Liberal party, said of
Dutton: **“** we have agreed more often than people might expect”.

“Peter’s public perception is not always an accurate reflection of Peter’s
true stance,” Birmingham said.

The new Labor prime minister, Anthony Albanese, said he wanted to work with
Dutton, where possible.

Liberals must shun ‘conspiracy theorists’ of climate wars, moderate Andrew
Bragg says

“I certainly have a good personal relationship with Peter Dutton. He has never
broken a confidence or his word to me,” he said.

But Greens Senator Mehreen Faruqi said Dutton’s ascent was “another sad day
for this broken outfit, who continue to drift further and faster to the
extreme right”.

“While the rest of the parliament works to tackle the climate crisis, restore
integrity and address inequality, we expect Mr Dutton to accelerate the
Liberals’ descent into irrelevance.”

Dutton himself has said he isn’t “some extreme rightwing person” and maintains
he wants to lead a “broad church” Liberal party.

He told the Guardian in 2018 that he had ambitions to be prime minister, but
when asked whether leaders needed to build consensus, rather than driving
political wedges, responded: “The short answer is yes, but you have to do it
at the same time as you still adhere to the values that people know you
believe in.”

“I think some leaders fall into the trap of abandoning principles or changing
to somebody that they think people want them to be, and I think that’s a huge
mistake.”

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Peter Dutton

  * Liberal party
  * Australian politics
  * Coalition
  * Australian immigration and asylum
  * Queensland
  * features

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

