Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionGustavo Petro during a presidential debate in Bogotá. Photograph:
Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

Colombia

# Has Colombian left’s time come at last as ex-rebel closes in on presidency?

After a century of rightwing rule and decades of civil war, Gustavo Petro goes
into Sunday’s election as the frontrunner

Joe Parkin Daniels in Bogotá

@joeparkdan

Sat 28 May 2022 05.30 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

He began his political career in the ranks of a Colombian guerrilla army, has
survived assassination attempts and served as senator and mayor of Bogotá.
When he appears before throngs of adoring supporters in squares across the
country, he does so flanked by bodyguards with bulletproof shields.

And after Sunday’s election, Gustavo Petro, 62, could become the first ever
leftwing president of Colombia, a country ruled since independence by
conservative elites and plagued for decades by political violence.

“If we want to open an era of peace in Colombia, we need to bring down the
regime of corruption,” Petro said from a bulletproof podium at the closing
rally of his campaign in Bogotá. “I’m certain that on Sunday we will change
Colombia’s history.”

Petro and his running mate, Francia Márquez, – who is already making history
as the first black female vice-presidential candidate – are the frontrunners
of a fistful of candidates running in the elections on Sunday.

“The right has always governed this country and it’s always done so with
corruption and violence,” said Arturo Romero, at the rally in Bogotá’s
historic Plaza Bolívar. Around him, people drank beer and waved flags of the
M-19, the onetime rebel group to which Petro belonged. Onstage, a salsa band
played.

“We need something new,” the 58-year-old said. “This country will be broken if
we don’t change.”

‘She represents me’: the black woman making political history in Colombia

Petro has long rattled political elites with his progressive policy proposals
and sharp tongue. He was the runner-up in the 2018 election, when he was
defeated by the conservative Iván Duque, but quickly emerged the frontrunner
in this campaign.

His main rival this time is Federico Gutiérrez, the former mayor of Medellín,
who is widely seen as representing the rightwing status quo, although a third
candidate, the populist Rodolfo Hernández, has recently surged in the polls.
If no candidate wins with more than half of the vote, a runoff will be held in
June.

If Petro does win, it would mark another victory for Latin America’s left,
which has recently come to power in Chile, Honduras, and Peru.

The immediate backdrop of the vote is an unprecedented wave of protest that
shook Colombia last year, and for many of those who participated in that wave
of dissent, the election is a continuation of the same struggle.

The protests – which were met with widespread police brutality – began over an
unpopular tax reform but quickly morphed into a howl of outrage against
inequality, and politicized a generation of young voters.

Gareth Sella, a 25-year-old videographer and director, is one of them. He lost
the sight in his left eye after being struck by a police rubber bullet during
a demonstration, and sees a clear line between that wave of unrest and the
presidential vote.

‘This is a revolution’: the faces of Colombia’s protests

“In Colombia what they call democracy is actually having all the power
concentrated on one side,” said Sella, at a cafe in Bogotá, wearing sunglasses
to cover his scarred eye. “We have to make a stand because it’s been 200 years
of the same and we can’t go backwards now.”

Sella was fed up with Colombia’s entrenched poverty, which has been horribly
exacerbated by the pandemic, and said that until now, he had felt excluded
from politics.

“Something is not right in this country, and we could all see it,” Sella said.
“People are going hungry in their homes.”

A mural depicting Gustavo Petro and vice-presidential candidate Francia
Márquez, in Ciudad Bolívar, Bogotá. Photograph: Yuri Cortéz/AFP/Getty Images

For most of the 20th century, political power in Colombia involved power-
sharing deals – sometimes explicit – between rightwing and centre-right
parties. Meanwhile leftwing parties were tarnished by association with the
many rebel groups fighting against the Colombian state. Decades of vicious
civil war between guerrillas, state forces and their paramilitary allies
killed more than 260,000 people and displaced 7 million.

When the country’s main guerrilla army – the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia (Farc) – laid down its weapons after a 2016 peace deal, many hoped
that the deal would finally open up a space for non-violent progressive
activists.

But the peace process remains fragile. The government has been accused of
failing to make good on promises to demobilised fighters, and violence
continues to dog the countryside, where dissident factions who ignored the
peace deal continue to battle with drug militias and the army. Seventy-nine
local activists and social leaders have been murdered this year alone.

Petro is an outspoken supporter of the peace deal, while Gutiérrez is thought
to be a skeptic.

“Petro is the only candidate who can bring Colombia the peace it desperately
needs,” said Ana Milena Andrade, 40, at the campaign rally in Bogotá. “We’re
tired of the corruption, the massacres, the dead social leaders.”

Petro was last month forced to suspend part of his campaign amid reports of an
assassination plot. And the threat of violence has loomed large in a country
where four presidential candidates have been killed since the 1980s.

One of those was Carlos Pizarro, a leader of the M-19 rebel group Petro once
belonged to. Pizarro led the group through a peace process from militant
insurgency to legal politics in 1990 but was shot dead on a commercial flight,
amid a frenzy of violence against leftist activists and former rebels which
claimed thousands of lives.

Pizarro’s daughter, María José Pizarro, a senator-elect from Petro’s
coalition, said that political violence remains endemic in Colombia, making
Petro’s polling success even more striking.

“There has long been persecution and extermination of the left in our country,
and it’s resurged during the last decade,” said Pizarro. “It’s always been
difficult for us in Colombia, compared with the left elsewhere in Latin
America.”

And though Petro may boast diehard support from swaths of the country, he is
hardly without critics. His tenure as mayor of Bogotá was pockmarked with
scandal, and he was briefly removed from office over a procurement scandal his
allies say was politically motivated. His high-handed style has also alienated
others, and he is no stranger to gaffes and incendiary remarks.

“He would be a debacle as president, just as he was when he was mayor,” said
Diana Rodríguez, 50, a media manager from Bogotá who plans to vote for
Gutiérrez. “My two daughters are about to go to university, but if Petro wins,
I’m thinking I’ll have to send them abroad.”

Rodríguez is not alone in her fear. Billboards across the country liken Petro
to Hugo Chávez, the Venezuelan strongman who led his country from democracy to
dictatorship via economic ruin. It is a line of attack that resonates in
Colombia, where more than 1 million Venezuelans have sought refuge.

Others have accused Petro of secretly planning to expropriate private
property, which he has repeatedly denied on the campaign trail. Gutiérrez,
meanwhile, has made “saving Colombia’s democracy” from Petro a central talking
point in stump speeches.

Sergio Guzmán, the director of Colombia Risk Analysis, a consultancy, said
Petro’s opponents are most worried about his economic policies. He has pledged
to halt oil exploration and to stop fracking in the country.

“That anxiety is trickling into markets,” Guzmán said. “Of course people are
worried about other issues too, but the main one is economic anxiety.”

But those at the rally in Bogotá say the only things they are worried about
are Petro’s safety or a failure to displace rightwing politics from the
presidential palace in Sunday’s vote.

“The right means violence and corruption,” said Romero, as the sun began to
set on a crowd of tens of thousands, shortly before Petro took to the stage.
“That’s why we must win.”

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Colombia
  * The Observer

  * Americas
  * features

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

