Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 22, 202212:47 PM UTCLast Updated ago

  * World

# France opens investigation into rape allegations against minister
Zacharopoulou

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

2 minute read

![Members of the French government at the Hotel Matignon in
Paris](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/UUSXTMVI7VMNPBWPHFFPJQX5SI.jpg)

French State Secretary for Development, Francophonie and International
Partnerships Chrysoula Zacharopoulou arrives for a working meeting with the
French Prime Minister and members of the government at the Hotel Matignon in
Paris, France, June 21, 2022. REUTERS/Benoit Tessier

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

PARIS, June 22 (Reuters) - The Paris public prosecutor's office said on
Wednesday it had opened an investigation into allegations of rape against
French Secretary of State for Development and the Francophonie, Chrysoula
Zacharopoulou, after two complaints had been received.

A first complaint for rape was submitted on May 25, which led to the opening
of the investigation on May 27. A second complaint was filed on June 16, the
prosecutor's office said.

Officials at the minister's office did not immediately respond to a request
for comment.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Zacharopoulou, a trained physician, previously worked as a gynaecologist
before moving to politics. French media earlier reported the complaints were
linked to her professional activity.

Another newly appointed minister, Damien Abad, Minister for Solidarity and the
Disabled, already faces mounting pressure over rape accusations made by two
women.

Abad has denied the allegations and said he has no intention from resigning
from the government.  read more

The investigation adds further pressure on President Emmanuel Macron's
government after this weekend's election setback in parliament.

Voters on Sunday delivered what is for France a rare hung parliament, with
Macron's centrist alliance 44 seats short of an absolute majority, and the far
right and a broad leftwing alliance battling to be the main opposition force,
while the conservatives could be kingmakers.  read more

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Dominique Vidalon; Editing by Angus MacSwan

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## World

  * Egypt’s strategic wheat reserves sufficient for 5.7 months, minister says, article with imageAfrica · June 26, 2022 · 10:08 AM UTC

Egypt has strategic reserves of wheat sufficient for 5.7 months, Supply
Minister Aly Moselhy said in a news conference on Sunday, adding that the
country has procured 3.9 million tonnes of wheat in the local harvest so far.

  * AmericasCanada has a path to "soft landing," finance minister says, article with image3:50 PM UTC

  * Video

WorldUK's Boris Johnson: cost of Russian victory in Ukraine is too high,
article with video1:29 PM UTC

  * WorldBoris Johnson wants G7 to balance values with doing business with China, article with image2:28 PM UTC

  * WorldU.S. confident Nato's strategy document will be "strong" on China, official says, article with image12:34 PM UTC

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

