Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 24, 20229:06 AM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Media & Telecom

# South Korean leader's informal media events are a break with tradition

By Soo-Hyang Choi

  *   *   *   *   * 

3 minute read

![South Korea's president-elect Yoon Suk-yeol holds a news conference about
his presidential office's relocation plans, in Seoul](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/GZERBM7GRFP5NFLJGGVOOJL3S4.jpg)

South Korea's president-elect Yoon Suk-yeol speaks during a news conference to
address his relocation plans of the presidential office, at his transition
team office, in Seoul, South Korea, March 20, 2022.Jung Yeon-je/Pool via
REUTERS

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

SEOUL, June 24 (Reuters) - South Korean leader Yoon Suk-yeol has departed from
years of tradition by holding informal daily media events to field questions
on topics ranging from inflation and ties with neighbouring North Korea to the
first lady and even boyband BTS.

Such wide-ranging access to the president was previously unheard of. It stems
from Yoon's decision to move his office out of the official Blue House, whose
previous occupants largely steered clear of such interactions over more than
seven decades.

"It's apparently helping Yoon dispel worries about his lack of political
experience and giving him a sense of where public opinion is at," said Eom
Kyeong-young, a political commentator based in the capital, Seoul.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Yoon, a former prosecutor-general, entered politics just a year ago, before
winning the presidency in March by a margin of just 0.7%, the narrowest in
South Korea's history.  read more

Upon his inauguration in May, Yoon moved the presidential office to the
compound of South Korea's defence ministry, describing the official residence
as the symbol of an "imperial presidency", and vowing not to "hide behind" his
aides.

His liberal predecessor, Moon Jae-in, had rarely held news conferences, and
almost always filtered his communication with the media, and the public,
through layers of secretaries.

Analysts see Yoon's daily freewheeling sessions as part of a broader
communications strategy that lets him drive policy initiatives and present
himself as a confident, approachable leader.

The campaign has also allayed public suspicions about the newcomer to
politics, they say.

Polls show the new strategy helping to win support and much-needed political
capital for Yoon in his effort to hasten recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic,
in a parliament dominated by the opposition Democratic Party.

Although Yoon's approval rating dipped to 47.6% in a recent survey, slightly
lower than the disapproval figure of 47.9%, another June poll showed
communication was the reason most frequently cited by those who favoured him.

"The sweeping victory of Yoon's conservative party in June local elections
shows the public is not so much against the new administration," said Eom.
read more

Incumbents from Yoon's People Power Party (PPP) defeated challengers for the
posts of mayor in the two biggest cities of Seoul and the port city of Busan
in that contest, while its candidates won five of seven parliamentary seats.

Eom attributed Yoon's low approval rating from the beginning of his term to
inflation risks that threaten to undermine an economic recovery and his lack
of a support base as a new politician.

But some critics say Yoon's sessions raise the chances that he could make
mistakes.

"He could make one mistake a day," Yun Kun-young of the opposition party wrote
on Facebook last week, saying the new practice could be "the biggest risk
factor" for the government.

The presidential office could not immediately be reached for comment.

Yoon has already faced criticism for controversial remarks made during the
morning briefings, such as one in defence of his nominee for education
minister, who has a record of driving under the influence of alcohol years
ago.

But the daily meetings and public reaction would ultimately help the
government to shape policy better, said Shin Yul, a professor of political
science at Myongji University in Seoul.

"It might be burdensome for his aides for now, but will be an advantage in the
long term," Shin said. "A slip of the tongue cannot be a bigger problem than a
policy failure."

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Soo-hyang Choi; Editing by Clarence Fernandez

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Media & Telecom

  * SoftBank's Son says Nasdaq listing most likely for chip designer Arm, article with imageTechnology · June 24, 2022

SoftBank Group Corp's founder and Chief Executive Masayoshi Son on Friday
reiterated the Japanese conglomerate was most likely to list British-based
chip designer unit Arm on Nasdaq, while stressing no decision has been made.

  * Gallery

MarketsEXCLUSIVE Rogers-Shaw M&A hinges on Shaw Mobile sale, sources say,
article with galleryJune 23, 2022

  * WorldSenators urge U.S. role in probe of Al Jazeera journalist's killing, article with imageJune 23, 2022

  * TechnologyNetflix lays off 300 employees in cost-cutting drive, article with imageJune 23, 2022

  * Gallery

WorldHarvard must face lawsuit over 'horrific' slave photos -Massachusetts
court, article with galleryJune 23, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

