Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

May 31, 20226:57 AM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Clean Energy

  * Climate Change

  * Climate Solutions

# Australian state plans laws to speed up hydrogen production

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

2 minute read

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

SYDNEY, May 31 (Reuters) - The South Australia government on Tuesday announced
plans to push ahead with new legislation that it said would help speed up the
production of hydrogen in the state.

The new dedicated hydrogen legislation will license and regulate the
production of hydrogen in South Australia, Premier Peter Malinauskas said in a
statement released at the Hydrogen Conference underway in Adelaide.

The legislation will provide a single access point into government for
licensing and regulating hydrogen generation projects, similar to what has
been afforded to the oil, gas and geothermal industries in South Australia,
the statement said.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

The scope of the new law will cover manufacturing of all forms of hydrogen,
including green hydrogen made from renewable energy, and blue hydrogen
manufactured from methane in conjunction with carbon capture and storage to
permanently sequester the associated carbon dioxide emissions, it said.

The state Labor government told the conference it was calling for designs and
delivery concepts for the construction of its new hydrogen facility in the
city of Whyalla.

South Australia, which has over 60% of its energy generated by wind and solar,
is targeting 100% net renewables by 2030 and wants to be a world-class clean
hydrogen supplier.

Hydrogen development is one area of energy policy that both sides of politics
in the country have backed.

Australia's Labor Party ended nearly a decade of conservative rule this month,
with the incumbent Liberal government being swept away by a wave of support
for candidates seeking more action on climate change.  read more

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Praveen Menon; Editing by Lincoln Feast.

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Industry Insight

  * Industry Insights Reuters ProfessionalDavid Craig: ‘If business is to survive, it has to stop stealing from nature’

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/arc-authors/reuters/18ab8afb-3f4a-45ce-
aa68-74b85618ec7d.jpg)

Oliver Balch

June 7, 2022

  * Industry Insights Reuters ProfessionalWhy indigenous peoples are key to ensuring EV revolution doesn’t run out of road

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/arc-
authors/reuters/f6a1f0d1-4dff-4ed0-bd5d-84d0d0d7e902.png)

Sarah Labrecque

May 31, 2022

  * Industry Insights Reuters ProfessionalIn the race against time to cut emissions, companies’ supply chains are key

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/arc-
authors/reuters/fce92ac7-72a1-45ab-a2bc-a7a9a3e7db8f.jpg)

Terry Slavin

May 30, 2022

  * Industry Insights Reuters ProfessionalUkraine war raises fears that efforts to tackle methane emissions from fossil fuels will be reversed

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/arc-
authors/reuters/fce92ac7-72a1-45ab-a2bc-a7a9a3e7db8f.jpg)

Terry Slavin

May 19, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

