Sections

SEARCH

Skip to contentSkip to site index

U.S.

Log in

Today’s Paper

U.S.|Southern Baptists Release List of Alleged Sex Abusers

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/26/us/southern-baptist-sex-abusers.html

  * Give this article

  *   *   * 118

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Supported by

Continue reading the main story

# Southern Baptists Release List of Alleged Sex Abusers

The document’s existence, once kept secret, was revealed just days ago,
sending shock waves through the denomination.

  *  **Send any friend a story**

As a subscriber, you have **10 gift articles** to give each month. Anyone can
read what you share.

Give this article

  *   *   * 118

  * Read in app

![Advocates for abuse victims at a rally outside the Southern Baptist
Convention in Dallas in
2018.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/26/us/26baptist-
release-1/26baptist-
release-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

Advocates for abuse victims at a rally outside the Southern Baptist Convention
in Dallas in 2018.Credit...Jeffrey Mcwhorter/Associated Press

![Ruth Graham](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2022/05/11/reader-
center/author-ruth-graham/author-ruth-graham-thumbLarge.png)

By Ruth Graham

May 26, 2022

Leaders of the Southern Baptist Convention published a 205-page list Thursday
evening of hundreds of ministers and other church workers it described as
being “credibly accused” of sexual abuse.

The list’s public release is one of the first definitive steps the
denomination’s leadership has taken in the wake of a nearly 300-page report
about its handling of alleged sexual abuse over the last 20 years.

The list’s publication on the denomination’s website was “an initial, but
important, step towards addressing the scourge of sexual abuse and
implementing reform in the Convention,” Rolland Slade, the chairman of the
denomination’s executive committee, and Willie McLaurin, the committee’s
interim president and chief executive, said in a statement. “Our prayer is
that the survivors of these heinous acts find hope and healing, and that
churches will utilize this list proactively to protect and care for the most
vulnerable among us.”

The report released Sunday by the denomination, prepared by a third-party
investigator, said that national leaders of the group suppressed claims of
sexual abuse and stymied proposals for reform over two decades. Though
Southern Baptists have grappled with abuse allegations for years, the report
sent shock waves through its churches for its descriptions of how leaders
ignored and stifled victims’ pleas for help and resisted reforms. Among the
most disturbing revelations, Southern Baptist pastors and members said, was
that leaders kept a secret list of reported abusers but appeared to take no
action to ensure the people on the list were no longer in positions of
influence in Southern Baptist settings.

Survivors of sexual abuse in Southern Baptist churches and other institutions
had urged the denomination to compile a list of known offenders to prevent
abusers from quietly moving to new jobs in ministry.

## Turmoil in the Southern Baptist Convention

### Internal and external crises have hit the nation’s largest Protestant
denomination.

  *  **Sex Abuse Crisis:** Southern Baptist leaders suppressed reports of sexual abuse and resisted proposals for reform over two decades, a third-party investigation found.
  *  **A Secret List:** The report revealed the existence of a secretly maintained list of hundreds of ministers accused of sexual abuse, which was later publicly released.
  *  **The Fallout:** Southern Baptist society had long distanced itself from the sexual abuse crisis consuming the Catholic Church. Now a reckoning has arrived.
  *  **A New Leader:** The denomination chose a rural Texas pastor as its next president over an ultraconservative candidate in a tense and unusually politicized contest.

The convention is the largest Protestant denomination in the country, with
almost 14 million members and more than 47,000 churches in all 50 states.

The list published Thursday is a version of a document maintained for more
than a decade by a staff member of the convention’s executive committee, a
body of 86 representatives from across the country that helps direct the
convention’s activities and finances. The secret list was shared with D.
August Boto, the committee’s former vice president and general counsel, the
report said _._

The list covers offenses going back decades. Each entry includes the alleged
offender’s name, the year the claim of the offense was reported, the state
where it took place and a short description of the accusations against them,
with links to relevant news articles. It also includes the alleged offender’s
denomination; most appear to belong to the Southern Baptist Convention, but
others are affiliated with other Baptist traditions.

One entry, for example, lists a youth minister at Garland Baptist Church in
Texas named Derek Wayne Hutter, who pleaded guilty in 2015 to charges of
enticement of a minor and was sentenced to 264 months in federal prison. The
Dallas Morning News reported that authorities said he had convinced a 13-year-
old girl in his youth group to have sex with him 20 times, at the church and
at Mr. Hutter’s home.

Most of the names had already been published elsewhere — including in a major
investigation into abuse allegations by The Houston Chronicle and San Antonio
Express-News. Some of the names had appeared in publicly available court
documents as part of criminal or civil suits.

The publication comes weeks before the convention’s annual meeting in Anaheim,
Calif., where leaders and members are expected to discuss other steps to
address abuse allegations. The convention will also elect new leadership as it
faces divisions over politics, culture and declining membership.

The third-party report contained multiple accounts of victims of sexual abuse
and others who said they contacted the convention’s executive committee about
alleged offenders and were ignored. At one point, Mr. Boto, the former vice
president, referred to the work of activists in an internal email as a
“satanic scheme.”

In 2007, a delegate at the denomination’s annual convention presented a motion
to create a database of clergy and staff “involved in sexual harassment or
abuse.” The next year, an executive committee working group rejected the
notion, saying that maintaining such a list publicly would violate the
denomination’s decentralized structure.

But the report released Sunday revealed that in 2007, the committee’s own
general counsel, James Guenther, proposed a plan for the denomination’s
website to link to such a database. “It would fit our polity and present
ministries to help churches in this area of child abuse and sexual
misconduct,” he wrote, recommending “immediate action.” Mr. Boto took no
action, according to the report.

Mr. Boto could not be reached for comment.

The list’s publication also comes just two days after Gene Besen, the
executive committee’s interim counsel, told committee members at a meeting
that the committee would publish the list “as quickly as we can.”

The original ad hoc list contained about 700 names, with about 400 who were
believed to be connected to the denomination. Though the list released
Thursday does not represent a complete tally of Southern Baptist offenders,
“promptly releasing that list is in our best interest, it’s important, it is
of immediate concern to the public and to the survivor community, and we need
to do it right away,” he told the committee.

Mr. Besen’s team spent several days redacting the names of survivors and
sources, where appropriate, and redacting any claims they could not
substantiate through news reports and other sources. He said they might
restore some names if related claims are later substantiated.

For the purposes of publication, the denomination defined “credibly accused”
as one who has either confessed in court or in another setting not protected
by legal privacy claims, been convicted in a criminal court, had a civil
judgment rendered against them, or had an accusation against them deemed
credible by a third party hired by a Baptist body.

On Wednesday, the denomination announced the creation of a confidential
hotline for abuse victims and others to submit allegations of abuse within the
organization. The hotline will be maintained by Guidepost Solutions, the
company that produced the report, and is described as “an important stopgap
measure for survivors” between now and the denomination’s annual meeting.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## Site Information Navigation

  * © 2022 The New York Times Company

  * NYTCo
  * Contact Us
  * Accessibility
  * Work with us
  * Advertise
  * T Brand Studio
  * Your Ad Choices
  * Privacy Policy
  * Terms of Service
  * Terms of Sale
  * Site Map
  * Canada
  * International
  * Help
  * Subscriptions

