Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Search
icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, "Click to perform a search".

Insider logo The word "Insider".

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Subscribe  Subscribe

  * Business The word Business
  * Life The word Life
  * News The word News
  * Reviews The word Reviews

  * Business 
    * Tech
    * Finance
    * Markets
    * Strategy
    * Retail
    * Advertising
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
  * Life 
    * Entertainment
    * Culture
    * Travel
    * Food
    * Health
    * Parenting
    * Beauty
    * Style
  * News 
    * Politics
    * Military & Defense
    * Sports
    * Opinion
  * Reviews 
    * Tech
    * Streaming
    * Home
    * Kitchen
    * Style
    * Beauty
    * Gifts
    * Deals
    * Pets
    * Parenting
    * Coupons
    * Health
    * Learning
    * Hobbies & Crafts
    * Travel
  * All 
    * A-Z
    * Advertising
    * Business
    * Careers
    * Coupons
      * DoorDash
      * Walmart
      * Dell
      * Staples
      * Under Armour
    * Culture
    * Design
    * Entertainment
    * Executive Lifestyle
    * Finance
    * Food
    * Health
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
    * Latest
    * Life
    * Markets Insider
    * Media
    * Military & Defense
    * News
    * Opinion
    * People
    * Personal Finance
      * Banking
      * Credit Cards
      * Insurance
      * Investing
      * Loans
      * Mortgages
    * Politics
    * Premium
    * Retail
    * Reviews
    * Science
    * Sports
    * Strategy
    * Tech
    * Transportation
    * Travel
    * TV
      * Beauty Explorers
      * Best in Town
      * Bonkers Closets
      * Festival Foodies
      * Movies Insider
      * Pop Culture Decoded
      * The Making Of
      * The Ultimate List
    * Featured
    * Better Capitalism
    * Cities Connected
    * Insider TV
    * Master Your Money
    * Next Stop
    * Sustainable Finance
    * Transforming Business
    * About
    * About
    * Advertise
    * Careers
    * Contact Us
    * Corporate
    * Corrections Policy
    * Follow
    * RSS
    * Sitemap
    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Instagram
    * YouTube
    * LinkedIn
    * Subscriptions
    * Intelligence
    * Premium

US Markets Loading... H M S In the news

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous
/ next navigation options. HOMEPAGE

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Subscribe  Subscribe

Home  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes
previous / next navigation options. Politics

# Results: 2 Mississippi GOP representatives head to runoff elections

Madison Hall and  John L. Dorman

2022-06-08T00:00:22Z

Save Article Icon A bookmark Facebook Icon The letter F. Email icon An
envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.

Share icon An curved arrow pointing right.

Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. Twitter LinkedIn
icon The word "in". LinkedIn Fliboard icon A stylized letter F. Flipboard Link
icon An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url. Copy Link

Download the app

![2022 Mississippi
Primaries](https://i.insider.com/629e78a9987cff0019bab8b8?width=700)

Insider

Mississippi held congressional primaries on Tuesday. Polls closed at 7 p.m.
local time and 8 p.m. ET.

## **The races and the stakes:**

Mississippi has four congressional House districts that are up for election on
Tuesday. Of the four seats, three of them are currently held by members of the
Republican Party.

In the state's 1st Congressional District, GOP Rep. Trent Kelly is running for
reelection to a fifth term and is facing off against businessman Mark Strauss
in the Republican primary. Strauss, who previously ran for office in Iowa,
espouses on his website that the COVID-19 pandemic was "planned" and that
vaccines were created and distributed for the purpose of "depoputation."

Mississippi's 2nd Congressional District features incumbent Rep. Bennie
Thompson running for reelection in the Democratic primary. Thompson, who was
first elected to the House in a 1993 special election and serves as chairman
of the House committee investigating the January 6 attack, will face off
against local business owner Jerry Kerner in the Democratic contest. There's
also a crowded GOP primary in the district featuring four candidates: Michael
Carson, Ronald Eller, Brian Flowers, and Stanford Johnson.

The state's 3rd Congressional District has incumbent GOP Rep. Michael Guest is
headed to a runoff against challenger Michael Cassidy set for June 28. There's
only one person running in the Democratic primary, former Homeland Security
staffer Shuwaski Young.

And, in Mississippi's 4th Congressional District, incumbent Republican Rep.
Steven Palazzo is also headed to a runoff against Mike Ezell. There are two
candidates running in the Democratic primary — former Hattiesburg mayor Johnny
DuPree and David Sellers, a pastor.

According to election experts at Sabato's Crystal Ball at the University of
Virginia Center for Politics, the races in November will likely not be
competitive. The organization rates Mississippi's 1st, 3rd, and 4th
Congressional Districts as "Safe R" and the state's 2nd Congressional District
as "Safe D."

![A picture of a switch and lightbulb](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/shared/light-switch.png)

Sign up for notifications from Insider! Stay up to date with what you want to
know.

Subscribe to push notifications

Deal icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

Keep reading

Newsletter

Sign up for our newsletter to receive our top stories based on your reading
preferences — delivered daily to your inbox.

Loading Something is loading.

Email address

By clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as
well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy
Policy.

###  NOW WATCH:

More: INSIDER Data Mississippi Elections Michael Guest

  * Trent Kelly
  * Steven Palazzo
  * Bennie Thompson
  * 2022 midterms
  * BI Graphics
  * Rebecca Zisser

Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous
/ next navigation options.

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Recommended Video

![Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/Insider-
logo-dark-opt.svg)

![Business Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/US/logos/BI-logo-dark-opt.svg)

Follow us on:

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/facebook.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/twitter.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/linkedin.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/youtube.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/instagram.svg)

![Download on the App Store](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/app-store-badge.svg)

![Get it on Google Play](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/google-play-badge.svg)

  * * Copyright © 2022 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
  * Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy and  Cookies Policy . 

  * Contact Us
  * Sitemap
  * Disclaimer
  * Accessibility
  * Commerce Policy
  * Advertising Policies
  * CA Privacy Rights
  * Coupons
  * Made in NYC
  * Jobs

  * Stock quotes by finanzen.net
  * Reprints & Permissions

  * International Editions:
  * United States US
  * International INTL
  * Asia AS
  * Deutschland & Österreich AT
  * Deutschland DE
  * España ES
  * India IN
  * Japan JP
  * México MX
  * Netherlands NL
  * Polska PL
  * South Africa ZA

![Insider.com TM Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-com-trademark-opt.svg)

![Insider-Inc Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-inc.svg)

![Business Insider DE Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/DE/logos/BI-DE-Black-on-Light-final-footer-logo-opt.svg)

