BBC Homepage

  * Skip to content
  * Accessibility Help

  * Your account

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * More menu

More menu

Search BBC

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

Close menu

BBC News

Menu

  * Home
  * War in Ukraine
  * Coronavirus
  * Climate
  * Video
  * World
  * US & Canada
  * UK
  * Business
  * Tech
  * Science

More

  * Stories
  * Entertainment & Arts
  * Health
  * In Pictures
  * Reality Check
  * World News TV
  * Newsbeat
  * Long Reads

  * US & Canada

# US gun control: Cautious welcome to bipartisan deal on new safety measures

 **By Yaroslav Lukov**  
BBC News

Published

    13 June

Share

close

Share page

Copy link

About sharing

![Gun safety advocates march in Orlando, Florida. Photo: 11 June
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/15F3D/production/_125371998_gettyimages-1241248138.jpg)Image
source, Getty Images

Image caption,

Tens of thousands of protesters rallied across the US on Saturday to call for
stricter gun laws

 **US campaigners have welcomed a potential cross-party deal on gun safety
reforms but stressed the proposals do not go far enough.**

"This is progress even if small," said David Hogg, a survivor of the 2018
Parkland school shooting in Florida.

Ex-lawmaker Gabrielle Giffords, injured in a 2011 shooting in Arizona, said it
was an "important step forward".

The plans include tougher checks for buyers under the age of 21 and cracking
down on illegal gun purchases.

They were announced by a cross-party group of US senators on Sunday.
Crucially, the proposals are supported by 10 Republicans, meaning they have
the numbers to be voted into law.

President Joe Biden also said the plans were "steps in the right direction"
but they fell far short of what he and many Democrats have been calling for.

Recent attempts to tighten gun laws in the US - which has the highest rate of
firearms deaths among the world's wealthy nations - have failed to get the
required support in Congress.

Tens of thousands of protesters rallied across the US on Saturday to call for
stricter gun laws in the wake of two mass shootings.

  * Where does US gun control go from here?
  * US gun control claims fact-checked
  * America's gun culture - in seven charts

"It's a great first step but that's just what it is," Mr Hogg told the BBC.
"No single policy is going to stop every shooting but this policy could stop
the next Parkland and that's a good step."

Ms Giffords, who suffered a severe brain injury, also gave a tentative welcome
to the proposals. Writing on Twitter, she said the agreement "could be the
first time in 30 years that Congress takes major action on gun safety.

"This deal represents that it's still possible to cut through politics and
deliver for the American people," she said.

Moms Demand Action, a gun control advocacy organisation, tweeted: "Our
grassroots army is ready to fight like hell to make sure it becomes law. 26
years for federal action on gun safety is unacceptable."

Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat, said he was "pleased" by the
development and that he wanted to move a bill quickly to a Senate vote once
legislative details were worked out.

The Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell stopped short of
endorsing the proposals but said they showed "the value of dialogue and co-
operation".

The National Rifle Association of America (NRA), a powerful gun rights
advocacy group, said it would respond once the full text of the reform was
released.

But the group stressed it would "continue to oppose any effort to insert gun
control policies, initiatives that override constitutional due process
protections & efforts to deprive law-abiding citizens of their fundamental
right to protect themselves/loved ones into this or any other legislation".

This video can not be played

## To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.

Media caption,

Watch: Thousands join gun control rallies across the US

Despite the high rate of firearms deaths, the US is a country where many
cherish gun rights that are protected by the Constitution's Second Amendment
to "keep and bear arms".

These are the first gun safety laws to receive bipartisan support of this kind
in decades, with previous attempts by Democrats for strengthened controls
frustrated by Republicans.

Attempts to tighten the laws in the wake of a previous school shooting at
Sandy Hook in Connecticut nearly a decade ago - in which 20 children and six
adults were killed - failed to get the required votes in Congress.

The Senate, or upper chamber of Congress, is currently split - with 50
Democrats and 50 Republicans - and legislation must have 60 votes to overcome
a manoeuvre known as the filibuster.

Ten of the 20 senators who proposed the new measures are Republicans, meaning
the proposals have the numbers needed to overcome the filibuster.

Democratic Senator Chris Murphy said a "substantial" part of the deal had been
nailed down by negotiators, allowing the drafting of legislation to get under
way on Monday, Reuters reported.

![A graphic showing an international comparison of gun-related killings as a
percentage of all homicides in each country. The US leads with nearly 79% of
all homicides occurring with
guns.](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/1024/cpsprodpb/AB92/production/_124122934_gun_related_crimes_640-2x-nc_updated.png)

## More on this story

  * Thousands rally across US for stricter gun laws

    11 June

!["Protect people not guns" - a sign at a rally in
Washington](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/1024/cpsprodpb/C70C/production/_125365905_gunsgetty.jpg)

## Related Topics

  * Gun control
  * United States
  * United States Senate
  * Mass shootings

## Top Stories

  * Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

Published

    1 hour ago

  * What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

Published

    4 hours ago

  * Chaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest. VideoChaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest

Published

    6 hours ago

## Features

  * Helping families locate the missing in Ukraine war

![Ukrainian servicemen leave the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Ukraine, 20
May
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/E416/production/_125609385_hi076160151.jpg)

  * Pots, trays, tubs - consumers confront their plastic footprint

![Jules Birkby's daughter was shocked by how much plastic they used in a
week](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/15EB5/production/_125618798_theplasticcount-
emmyisshocked.jpg)

  * G7 face battle for unity as cost of war mounts

![unexploded bomb in
kharkiv](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/8C8D/production/_125618953_mediaitem125618951.jpg)

  * The priceless Nigerian sculpture stuck with UK police

![The stolen Ife
bronze](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/C25B/production/_125555794_bp2_976_2.png)

  * Inside Ukraine's International Legion. VideoInside Ukraine's International Legion

![Ukrainian International Legion
Soldiers](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/27CF/production/_125619101_p0ch58xk.jpg)

  * The Indians choosing not to have children. VideoThe Indians choosing not to have children

![A growing number of Indian are deciding to never become parents. The BBC
spoke to a few to find out
why](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/14B34/production/_125588748_p0cgnfnd.jpg)

  * How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

![Sullivan
family](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/113F7/production/_125574607_sullivans.jpg)

  * Four things we've learned from Jan 6 hearings

![Liz Cheney speaks during the fifth hearing by the House Select Committee to
investigation the 6 January attack on the US
Capitol](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/A9EB/production/_125599434_d20ed912-f529-4d06-b300-87ebc8a3dc05.jpg)

  * The surprising reason more Americans are turning to psychedelic drugs

![Brain surrounded by psychedelic
colours](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/11E4A/production/_125609237_screenshot2022-06-24at15.45.08.png)

## Elsewhere on the BBC

  * Why top chefs are leaving Paris

"It started before Covid, but it was discreet"

![Berry Tart and food](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/47E7/production/_125570481_parischefsleaving.jpg)

  * The films bringing sex work to life

Has cinema perpetuated damaging stereotypes?

![people on bed](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/15957/production/_125570488_sexworkfilms.jpg)

  * Has human progress peaked?

A growing and influential intellectual movement aims to understand why human
progress happens â€“ and how to speed it up

![night photographer](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/D4EB/production/_125570545_humanprogresspeaked.jpg)

## Most Read

  1. 1Prince Charles 'accepted a suitcase with 1m euros'

  2. 2Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

  3. 3What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

  4. 4South African police investigate nightclub deaths

  5. 5US firms pledge to pay abortion travel expenses

  6. 6G7 leaders meet amid political pressures at home

  7. 7U2 singer Bono discovered he has a half-brother

  8. 8How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

  9. 9The world reacts to US abortion ruling

  10. 10Russia on brink of default as debt deadline looms

## BBC News Services

  * On your mobile
  * On smart speakers
  * Get news alerts
  * Contact BBC News

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

  * Terms of Use
  * About the BBC
  * Privacy Policy
  * Cookies
  * Accessibility Help
  * Parental Guidance
  * Contact the BBC
  * Get Personalised Newsletters
  * Why you can trust the BBC
  * Advertise with us
  * AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info

Â© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read
about our approach to external linking.

![](https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/p?c1=2&c2=17986528&cs_ucfr=0&cv=2.0&cj=1)

