![Comscore
beacon](https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/p?c1=2&c2=3005041&cv=2.0&cj=1)

AP NEWS

Sections

  * U.S. News
  * World News
  * Politics
  * Sports
  * Entertainment
  * Business
  * Technology
  * Health
  * Science
  * Oddities
  * Lifestyle
  * Photography
  * Videos

Sections

  1. AP Top News
  2. U.S. News
  3. World NewsAfricaAsia PacificAustraliaEuropeLatin AmericaMiddle East
  4. PoliticsPresident BidenMidterm electionsCongressU.S. Supreme Court
  5. SportsMLBNBANHLNFL
  6. EntertainmentFilm ReviewsMoviesMusicTelevisionFashion
  7. BusinessEconomyFinancial markets

* * *

  8. Technology
  9. HealthCOVID-19
  10. ScienceClimate and environment
  11. MoreAP Fact CheckLifestyleReligionPress ReleasesOdditiesPhotographyTravel

  * Trending News
  * Abortion
  * Gun politics
  * G-7 Summit
  * Russia-Ukraine war
  * COVID-19

Search

ADVERTISEMENT

https://apnews.com/article/us-supreme-court-congress-
election-2020-presidential-elections-government-and-
politics-78b49ee23f12760a7c074500276ce4e6

Click to copy

https://apnews.com/article/us-supreme-court-congress-
election-2020-presidential-elections-government-and-
politics-78b49ee23f12760a7c074500276ce4e6

Click to copy

Related topics

  * U.S. Supreme Court
  * Politics
  * Burglary
  * Congress
  * Election 2020
  * Presidential elections
  * Government and politics
  * Trending News
  * AP Top News

# Wallowing in Watergate 50 years later: A political quiz

By MIKE FEINSILBERJune 17, 2022 GMT

![FILE - President Richard Nixon tells a group of Republican campaign
contributors, he will get to the bottom of the Watergate scandal during a
speech on May 9, 1973 in Washington. \(AP Photo/John Duricka, File\)]()

![FILE - President Richard Nixon tells a group of Republican campaign
contributors, he will get to the bottom of the Watergate scandal during a
speech on May 9, 1973 in Washington. \(AP Photo/John Duricka, File\)]()

![FILE - President Richard Nixon tells a group of Republican campaign
contributors, he will get to the bottom of the Watergate scandal during a
speech on May 9, 1973 in Washington. \(AP Photo/John Duricka, File\)]()

1 of 3

FILE - President Richard Nixon tells a group of Republican campaign
contributors, he will get to the bottom of the Watergate scandal during a
speech on May 9, 1973 in Washington. (AP Photo/John Duricka, File)

1 of 3

FILE - President Richard Nixon tells a group of Republican campaign
contributors, he will get to the bottom of the Watergate scandal during a
speech on May 9, 1973 in Washington. (AP Photo/John Duricka, File)

WASHINGTON (AP) — For half a century, every major Washington scandal started
with some form of this question: Is this another Watergate?

Watergate spawned an all-purpose suffix. If “gate” were appended to misdeeds
it was controversy of first rank.

Watergate brought down a president. It reordered American politics, at least
for a time. It begot far-reaching reforms, many now eroded. It seeded ever
greater mistrust in government.

Until a June night 50 years ago, Watergate meant little more than an apartment
complex, an office building and a bandshell at the edge of the Potomac where
military bands played the music of John Philip Sousa on warm summer evenings.

Then, in the Watergate office building, where the Democratic National
Committee maintained its headquarters, came a burglary. Then a cover-up. Then
the unravelling of a presidency. “Watergate” forever stands for political
corruption and the shaming of Richard M. Nixon.

ADVERTISEMENT

Nixon tried to dismiss it all. “Let others wallow in Watergate,” he said in
the Rose Garden in July 1973. “We are going to do our job.” That didn’t work.

On the 50th anniversary of the events that precipitated Nixon’s downfall,
acknowledged just as a Watergate-style inquiry is investigating another former
president, here’s a quiz to see how well you know the story.

### Gun politics

* #### Highlights of bipartisan gun violence bill signed by Biden

* #### Report: Oklahoma gun deaths rose as firearms access grew

* #### Guns in paradise: Ruling could undo strict Hawaii carry law

* #### Biden signs landmark gun measure, says 'lives will be saved'

Wallow away.

THE SCANDAL IN 60 SECONDS

On June 17, 1972, Democratic Party headquarters in the Watergate office
building in Washington, D.C., were entered by burglars wearing (1) ------
gloves. Their pockets were stuffed with (2) ------- bills. They were arrested
and subsequently identified with Nixon’s reelection committee, known by the
acronym CREEP, which stood for (3) ------—.

The president’s press secretary called it a (4) ------ burglary attempt. But
two reporters for (5) -------- dug around and established a link between the
burglars and the White House.

Six days after the burglary, the Republican president agreed with a plan to
cover up White House involvement. Seven men pleaded guilty or were convicted
of the burglary and one of them, (6) ----—, made demands of the White House
for hush money.

Nixon was told it could cost (7) -----—. Some of the participants in the
cover-up became afraid and talked to (8) -------—. A Senate committee began an
investigation, and it was revealed that Nixon secretly recorded all his
conversations in the White House.

Thus began a legal tug-of-war involving the White House, the Senate and the
courts for the tapes. When Prosecutor Archibald Cox pressed too hard, Nixon
ordered him (9) ------- in what became known as the (10) ---------.

Finally, the Supreme Court ordered Nixon to yield the tapes. A House committee
recommended that he be (11) ---------, and it looked like that would happen
when Nixon (12) ---------. He flew off to his villa in (13) ---------,
California. (14) ------- became president and later pardoned Nixon.

ANSWERS

1\. surgical

2\. $100

3\. Committee for the Re-election of the President, often referred to as
Committee to Re-elect the President

ADVERTISEMENT

4\. third-rate

5\. The Washington Post

6\. E. Howard Hunt

7\. $ 1 million

8\. federal prosecutors

9\. fired

10\. Saturday Night Massacre

11\. impeached

12\. resigned

13\. San Clemente

14\. Gerald R. Ford

WATERGATE DATES

The true Watergate connoisseur needs only a date to recall a significant
event. The Watergate break-in was on June 17, 1972. Richard Nixon was pardoned
Sept. 8, 1974. Now it’s up to you to arrange the following events in
chronological order and then pair them with the dates on which they occurred.

EVENTS:

1\. Nixon resigns after announcing his decision the night before.

2\. The Saturday Night Massacre.

3\. Testimony before the Senate Watergate Committee reveals that all of
Nixon’s White House conversations were taped.

4\. Nixon aides H.R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman resign. Presidential
counsel John Dean is fired.

5\. Seven men are indicted for the Watergate break-in.

6\. The Supreme Court rules Nixon must give up tapes that are needed as
evidence in the trial of his aides.

7\. Nixon and H.R. Haldeman discuss Watergate. Later, prosecutors find an
18-minute gap in the tape of that conversation.

8\. The Committee on the Judiciary in the House of Representatives votes 27 to
11 to recommend Nixon’s impeachment.

DATES:

A. June 20, 1972

B. Sept. 15, 1972

ADVERTISEMENT

C. April 30, 1973

D. July 16, 1973

E. Oct. 20, 1973

F. July 24, 1974

G. July 27, 1974

H. Aug. 9, 1974

ANSWERS

1\. H.

2\. E.

3\. D.

4\. C.

5\. B.

6\. F.

7\. A.

8\. G.

BREAKING THE WATERGATE CODE

Here are some words that cropped up often in Watergate.

Pick the right meaning (more than one may be correct).

1\. “Gemstone” referred to:

a. The payoff to the Watergate burglars.

b. The radioed signal that the coast was clear for the Watergate burglars.

c. The code name for a confidential wiretap operation.

2\. “Smoking gun” was:

a. The Secret Service code name for Ron Ziegler.

b. Nixon’s gift to the Shah of Iran.

c. The taped conversation that implicated Nixon in the cover-up from the
start.

d. The code name for Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein’s informant.

3\. The “Huston Plan” was:

a. A proposal for canceling the 1972 election.

b. The plan to hold the 1972 GOP convention in Houston.

c. The Nixon reelection committee’s strategy for winning.

d. A proposal for domestic surveillance and break-ins to keep tabs on
radicals.

4\. The White House plumbers were:

a. A White House group formed to investigate leaks.

b. A team that consisted of G. Gordon Liddy and E. Howard Hunt and others.

c. A group of men who burglarized the Beverly Hills office of Daniel
Ellsberg’s psychiatrist.

d. An undercover team that operated out of Room 16 in the basement of the Old
Executive Office Building.

ADVERTISEMENT

ANSWERS

1\. c.

2\. c.

3\. d. (The plan was drafted by White House aide Tom Huston.)

4\. a, b, c and d.

WATERGATE MATH

1\. How many people were charged with a Watergate-related crime?

a. 7

b. 25

c. 69

d. 106

2\. How many people pleaded guilty?

a. 3

b. 13

c. 25

d. 48

3\. How many people were convicted after a trial?

a. 4

b. 13

c. 33

d. 42

4\. How many people served time?

a. 7

b. 14

c. 25

d. 43

5\. How many people only paid fines?

a. 5

b. 7

c. 16

d. 22

ANSWERS

1\. c. (69)

2\. d. (48)

3\. b. (13)

4\. c (25)

5\. d. (22)

TIME IN THE PEN

The men who went to prison for Watergate crimes served a total of more than 22
years. Of the top five, pick the one who served the longest.

1\. Burglary mastermind G. Gordon Liddy.

2\. His chief lieutenant, E. Howard Hunt.

3\. The attorney general, John N. Mitchell.

4\. The White House chief of staff, H.R. Haldeman.

5\. White House domestic adviser John D. Ehrlichman.

ANSWER

Liddy, convicted in the Watergate burglary, was also convicted in the break-in
at the office of Daniel Ellsberg’s psychiatrist, for refusing to testify
before a congressional committee and a federal grand jury. He was sentenced to
serve a term of six years and eight months to 20 years. His sentence was
commuted to a maximum of eight years by President Jimmy Carter, and he
actually served 52 months.

ADVERTISEMENT

THE PHRASEMAKERS

1\. Who blamed a “sinister force” for the 18 minute tape gap?

a. Alexander Butterfield

b. Alexander Haig

c. Alexander Knox

2\. Who is credited with coining the term “modified limited hangout” for
partial and innocuous Watergate disclosures intended to satisfy investigators’
curiosity?

a. John Ehrlichman

b. John Dean

c. John Mitchell

3\. Who kept asking, “What did the president know and when did he know it?”

a. Howard Hunt

b. Howard Smith

c. Howard Baker

4\. Who suggested letting acting FBI Director L. Patrick Gray twist “slowly,
slowly in the wind?”

a. Presidential valet Manolo Sanchez

b. Presidential press secretary Ronald Ziegler

c. Presidential adviser John Ehrlichman

ANSWERS

1\. b. Haig.

2\. a. Ehrlichman is credited, but he says someone else said it.

3\. c. Howard Baker.

4\. c. Ehrlichman, who said he got the phrase from Aldous Huxley’s “Brave New
World.”

WATERGATE OBJETS D’ART

In this list, find the eight items that have some connection with Watergate.
Extra credit if you can remember what the connection is.

1\. A bus token.

2\. A piece of tape.

3\. An audio tape test.

4\. A pill bottle with a childproof cap.

5\. A black cat.

6\. A red wig.

7\. A flannel nightgown.

8\. An abstract painting in a museum.

9\. A black notebook with Howard Hunt’s name in it.

10\. A jimmied file cabinet in California.

11\. A brown paper lunch bag.

12\. A flower pot.

ANSWERS

1\. No connection.

2\. The tape was used to block the latch in the basement entrance of the
Watergate office building.

3\. The test was ordered by Judge John Sirica in a failed effort to see what
caused the erasure of 18 minutes of crucial taped Watergate conversation
between Nixon and H.R. Haldeman.

4\. The pill bottle is what Nixon was too undexterous to open, according to
Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein’s book, “The Final Days.”

5\. No connection.

6\. The wig was part of the disguise that Hunt put on when he flew to Denver
to interview Dita Beard, an ITT lobbyist.

7\. No connection.

8\. No connection.

9\. The notebook was found on one of the burglars and started the trail that
led eventually to Nixon’s involvement.

10\. The cabinet in the office of Daniel Ellsberg’s psychiatrist was jimmied
by White House agents looking for dirt on Ellsberg.

11\. The paper bag served as the inventory sheet on which Secret Service
agents kept track of Nixon’s secret tapes as they were checked out of their
subterranean warren.

12\. The flower pot, which had a red flag stuck in it, belonged to Woodward.
He would reposition it on his apartment balcony to signal that he needed to
contact his anonymous source, Deep Throat.

ROLL CALL

Here are some people whose names cropped up in Watergate. Match their names
with the descriptions.

NAMES

1\. Fred Buzhardt

2\. Virgilio Gonzalez

3\. George McGovern

4\. Rose Mary Woods

5\. Fred Thompson

6\. Donald Segretti

7\. Dwight Chapin

8\. Matthew Byrne

9\. Henry Petersen

10\. Bebe Rebozo

11\. Steve Bull

12\. Anthony Ulasewicz

13\. Charles Colson.

DESCRIPTIONS

A. Nixon’s best friend.

B. Nixon’s private secretary, who took blame for 4-5 minutes of the 18-minute
tape gap.

C. He distributed hush money to the Watergate burglars.

D. The Nixon assistant who cued up tapes for the president to listen to.

E. A dirty trickster.

F. The White House aide who recruited the dirty trickster.

G. Nixon’s opponent in the 1972 election.

H. The assistant attorney general who discussed Watergate with Nixon.

I. The White House lawyer who discovered the 18 -minute tape gap.

J. The White House aide who later got religion.

K. Counsel to the Republican minority on the Senate Watergate Committee; he
became a Republican senator from Tennessee.

L. One of the burglars arrested inside the Watergate.

M. The federal judge who, while he presided over the Ellsberg-Pentagon Papers
trial, was offered the post of FBI director.

ANSWERS

1\. I.

2\. L.

3\. G.

4\. B.

5\. K.

6\. E.

7\. F.

8\. M.

9\. H.

10\. A.

11\. D.

12\. C.

13\. J.

WATERGATE VERITIES: True or False?

1\. Nixon was named as a Watergate conspirator by a grand jury but was not
indicted.

2\. John Dean borrowed money from a White House safe to pay for his honeymoon.

3\. Spiro Agnew resigned as vice president because of his involvement in
Watergate.

4\. Nixon and Henry Kissinger knelt in prayer together after the president
decided to resign.

5\. The burglars had broken into Democratic headquarters once before the time
they were caught.

6\. G. Gordon Liddy offered to have himself shot to take the Watergate heat
off the White House.

7\. One of the Watergate burglars was on a CIA retainer when he was arrested.

8\. Herbert Kalmbach and Richard Kleindienst were lawyers for the Nixon re-
election committee.

9\. The “milk fund” was used to pay off the Watergate burglars.

10\. Nixon never publicly discussed Watergate until the night he resigned.

11\. Nixon was the first president to resign his office.

ANSWERS

1\. True. The president was one of 18 unindicted co-conspirators.

2\. True. He borrowed $ 4,850 and paid it back.

3\. False. He resigned Oct. 10, 1973, rather than contest charges that he took
payoffs while governor of Maryland and as vice president.

4\. True. In his memoirs, Nixon said, “I asked him to pray with me … and we
knelt.”

5\. True. They had planted some bugs on Memorial Day weekend. One of them
didn’t work and that’s one reason they had come back.

6\. True. It was one of the reasons Nixon and others in the White House
considered him to be irrational.

7\. True. Eugenio Martinez, an anti-Castro Cuban, was receiving checks
regularly.

8\. False. Kalmbach was Nixon’s personal lawyer and a fund-raiser; Kleindienst
followed John Mitchell as attorney general.

9\. False. It was made up of contributions from the dairy industry to Nixon’s
re-election campaign.

10\. False. The subject came up at many press conferences and in his public
addresses, beginning with a news conference five days after the burglary.

11\. True. The first and only.

THE WIVES OF WATERGATE

Martha Mitchell, Maureen Dean, Pat Nixon and Dorothy Hunt were married to men
who, one way or another, were connected to Watergate.

Which one:

1\. Sat by while her husband testified for five days in a televised Watergate
hearing?

2\. Complained that a former FBI man held her down while a doctor drugged her
in a California motel by jabbing a needle into her backside?

3\. Was killed in a plane crash while carrying $10,000 in cash?

4\. Was known as Thelma Ryan as a girl?

ANSWERS

1\. Mrs. Dean

2\. Mrs. Mitchell

3\. Mrs. Hunt

4\. Mrs. Nixon, whose nickname was Pat.

TWISTING IN THE WIND

Enough of the creampuff questions. Time to play hardball.

1\. The political espionage plan that included the Watergate break-in was
presented three times by G. Gordon Liddy to whom before it was approved? Liddy
asked first for $1 million; how much was finally OK’d?

2\. Who said he had to carry so much telephone change to make arrangements for
delivery of hush money that “I had a bus guy’s coin changer?”

3\. Name the seven senators on the Senate Watergate Committee and identify
their states and parties.

4\. Name the chief prosecutor at the original Watergate trial.

5\. A lookout was supposed to warn the Watergate burglars if anything went
awry. Name the lookout and the hotel across from the Watergate where he was
posted.

6\. What Watergate character was nicknamed “The Writer” because he had written
more than 40 spy novels?

7\. Hours after the Watergate burglars were arrested, G. Gordon Liddy failed
to persuade Attorney General Richard Kleindienst to intercede to have them
released. Where did he find Kleindienst?

8\. Who disclosed the existence of the White House taping system?

9\. Nixon said he was advised to tape his White House conversations by whom?

10\. Who was Daniel Ellsberg’s psychiatrist?

11\. Archibald Cox was the first of four special Watergate prosecutors. Who
were the others?

12\. Where was Richard Nixon:

(a) on the day of the Watergate burglary?

(b) when he told Haldeman and Ehrlichman they were fired?

(c) when Dean told him about the cancer on the presidency?

(d) when the Supreme Court ordered him to give up his tapes?

(e) when Gerald R. Ford was sworn in as his successor?

ANSWERS

1\. Attorney General John Mitchell; $250,000.

2\. Anthony Ulasewicz.

3\. Chairman Sam J. Ervin Jr., D-N.C.; Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn.; Herman E.
Talmadge, D-Ga.; Daniel K. Inouye, D-Hawaii; Joseph M. Montoya, D-N.M.; Edward
J. Gurney, R-Fla.; Lowell P. Weicker, R-Conn.

4\. Earl S. Silbert.

5\. Alfred C. Baldwin III, at the Howard Johnson’s Motor Lodge.

6\. E. Howard Hunt.

7\. Burning Tree golf course in a Maryland suburb.

8\. Alexander Butterfield.

9\. His predecessor, Lyndon B. Johnson.

10\. Dr. Lewis Fielding of Beverly Hills, Calif.

11\. Leon Jaworski, Henry Ruth and Charles F.C. Ruff

12\. (a) On Grand Cay in the Bahamas; (b) Camp David; (c) In the Oval Office;
(d) At his villa in San Clemente, Calif.; (e) Flying home to California.

___

Feinsilber, now retired, created this quiz in 1997 for the 25th anniversary of
the Watergate break-in. It has been updated for the 50th.

___

This quiz has been corrected by deleting the reference to Inouye still being
in the Senate; Inouye died in 2012. It also deletes the reference to Thompson
being a current Republican senator; he left the Senate in 2003 and died in
2015.

AP NEWS

  1. Top Stories
  2. Video
  3. Contact Us
  4. Accessibility Statement
  5. Cookie Settings

Download AP NEWS

Connect with the definitive source for global and local news

More from AP

  1. ap.org
  2. AP Insights
  3. AP Definitive Source Blog
  4. AP Images Spotlight
  5. AP Explore
  6. AP Books

Follow AP

  1.   2.   3.   4. 

The Associated Press

  1. About
  2. Contact
  3. Customer Support
  4. Careers
  5. Terms & Conditions
  6. Privacy

All contents © copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.

