Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 7, 202211:40 PM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Supreme Court of the United States

  * Appellate

# Comics feature U.S. Supreme Court's newest women appointees

By Alicia Powell

  *   *   *   *   * 

2 minute read

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

NEW YORK, June 7 (Reuters) - U.S. Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett is
the latest to join the pantheon of TidalWave Comics' "Female Force" series,
followed by the latest appointee to the bench, Ketanji Brown Jackson.

The story of Barrett, 50, begins with her 2020 U.S. Senate confirmation
hearing before flashing back to her childhood in New Orleans. The 24 pages
detail Barrett's Catholic upbringing, years teaching at the University of
Notre Dame's Law School and her time serving as a law clerk for the late U.S.
Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. Barrett was appointed to the court by
Republican former President Donald Trump.

![U.S. President Joe Biden's State of the Union address at the U.S. Capitol in
Washington](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/PRC54EJLQBK47OQG542ZTTDDYU.jpg)

![Cover of ](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/65H42S3LQFNK7EVP3PYJXID7EQ.jpg)

![Cover of ](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/4H3GYMQBERNI3M7RGQWHUSWLVY.jpg)

1/6

A cover of "Female Force: Ketanji Jackson Brown" comic book is pictured in
this handout image obtained by Reuters on June 6, 2022. TidalWave
Comics/Handout via REUTERS

Read More

The glossy, released on Tuesday, also outlines Barrett's family life.

Jackson, 51, will be featured in a TidalWave comic in the fall. The Senate in
April voted to confirm Jackson as the first Black woman to serve on the
Supreme Court, nominated by President Joe Biden to replace retiring Justice
Stephen Breyer. Jackson is due to join the court after Breyer formally departs
when the court's current term ends in the coming weeks.

The "Female Force" series spotlights strong, independent women in modern
politics. The company's titles also include current Justice Sonia Sotomayor,
the court's first Hispanic member, and the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Alicia Powell; Editing by Richard Chang and Will Dunham

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Industry Insight

  * Industry InsightsTalent is top concern on law firm leaders’ minds, says new report

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/arc-
authors/reuters/da820977-26ce-4601-9b98-29e95c4ef6e5.png)

Thomson Reuters Institute

June 16, 2022

  * Industry InsightsMeeting fraudsters on the battlefield: The impact of fraud after the pandemic

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/arc-
authors/reuters/360b623d-67c8-44c6-a992-58919db8846c.png)

Gina Jurva

June 15, 2022

  * Industry InsightsThe impact of pay equity claims in the legal industry and beyond

![](https://assets-us-main.prod.global.reutersmedia.net/profile-pic-
public/megha_jain_nrl.tri.jpg)

Megha Jain

June 6, 2022

  * Industry InsightsLeveraging process improvement: Taking the steps needed to improve operations within your law firm

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/arc-
authors/reuters/f280be64-c660-431b-8003-8490c9387039.png)

Gregg Wirth

June 6, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

