Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionDowning Street in Farnham, Surrey. Most people in this safe Tory
constituency sounded thoroughly fed up. Photograph: Martin Godwin/The Guardian

Politics

# Partygate anger but time to move on: the mood in another Downing Street

Many in Surrey street that shares name with PM’s address are still fuming but
are more worried about cost of living

Rachel Hall

@rachela_hall

Fri 27 May 2022 07.37 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

At the end of a long week, the mood in Downing Street is mixed.

Most are angry but want to move on. They don’t much like Boris Johnson but the
cost of living crisis is what really worries them now.

The views are not of Westminster civil servants or Whitehall insiders but the
residents of Farnham in Surrey, whose high street bears the name of the most
famous cul-de-sac in Britain.

The person in charge at No 10 in this upmarket thoroughfare is not the prime
minister but El Harper, the manager of a tattoo parlour called Ministry of
Ink.

Harper, it would be fair to say, is no fan of Johnson, though he has been
doing good trade selling T-shirts mocking the PM.

On prominent display in the shop window is a black T-shirt with a tattoo-style
illustration of Johnson, featuring his iconic floppy hair and the words “Eton”
and “Mess” tattooed on to each of his eyebrows.

El Harper works as a tattooist at No 10 Downing Street in Farnham – and has a
sideline in anti-Boris Johnson T-shirts. Photograph: Martin Godwin/The
Guardian

Harper said these T-shirts had flown off the shelves but admitted nobody had
asked for a replica on their body – yet.

Harper does not consider himself party political and has on occasion voted
Conservative but he was emphatic that Johnson would never get his backing. He
said his distrust of politicians and the media had been exacerbated by
Partygate, not least because he spent lockdown completely alone in his flat.

“We couldn’t work and people were having parties. Everyone’s human and
everyone makes mistakes, but he should be held accountable.”

After a turbulent week in which the Sue Gray report detailed all manner of
debauchery in government during Covid lockdowns, and then Rishi Sunak
announced his plans to help people with their household bills, most people in
this safe Tory constituency sounded thoroughly fed up.

They said they were sick of Partygate and felt it was time to move on and
tackle the real challenges facing the UK.

Many shared their frustrations that the scandal was continuing to occupy so
many column inches when the Ukraine war and the cost of living crisis were
making their day-to-day lives difficult.  
  
Brenda Greenhead, a 76-year-old shopping on Downing Street, sought to
summarise the feelings of many in Farnham. “We’re fed up of Partygate. Let’s
put it behind us, there are more important things in the world.”

Brenda Greenhead: ‘I’m sure millions of people had parties but he shouldn’t
have done it.’ Photograph: Martin Godwin/The Guardian

  
This did not mean she condoned the prime minister’s actions, she said, as she
tearfully recalled her experience of lockdown. “People were struggling. I
couldn’t see my sister when she died, we weren’t allowed in the hospital. I’m
sure millions of people had parties but he shouldn’t have done it.”  
While she wanted politics to move on, she added that Partygate, and her view
that pensioners needed more support with price increases, had changed her
opinion of the prime minister. She voted for him in the last election and
would ideally vote Conservative again “but Boris Johnson and the people around
him put me off. They lie.”  

One local business owner was less concerned by the parties. “A party is only a
party when there’s an invitation, so I don’t regard this as a party. I don’t
think Boris Johnson has done anything wrong, he was just passing through, it
was just a piece of cake in Tupperware,” she said.  
  
She voted for Johnson in the last election and would again, and believed only
an “insular political elite” considered Partygate to be significant. “They
don’t listen to the outside world. We care about the Ukraine war, lots of my
friends feel the same.”

Local Labour supporters disagreed. Jonathon Summers-Mileman, a 29-year-old
arts marketer, said Partygate mattered because of what it said about the state
of UK politics, and that Johnson should resign as a result.

“It’s not the parties, it’s the lying. There’s something wrong with politics
when lying forms a major part of government. We’ve never been in a place where
someone who broke the law is in charge. The government should lead by
example,” he said.

Jonathon Summers-Mileman: ‘There is a lot of anger and embarrassment here.’
Photograph: Martin Godwin/The Guardian

  
Although he said the local Conservative MP, Jeremy Hunt, had “done lots of
good” for the area, he speculated that the Liberal Democrats may threaten the
Tories by picking up protest votes in two upcoming byelections – in Wakefield
and in Tiverton and Honiton – and the next general election. “There is a lot
of anger and embarrassment here.”

He was scathing about the £10bn package of measures announced by Sunak on
Thursday to reduce the cost of living pressures. “It feels like we’re being
paid off. Politics has become so reactionary. I don’t know what they stand for
other than staying in power.”

His views were echoed by Brian Alexander, 85, a retired architect. He thought
the cost of living measures “should have been out months ago”, and viewed the
giveaways as “buying time and staying in power”.

He added: “It’s a scandal that the Sue Gray report wasn’t published earlier.
I’m disgusted Johnson hasn’t resigned, I don’t know what country we’re living
in. It’s disgraceful we have a man in charge with no principles. He’s a liar
and a cheat.”

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Politics

  * Boris Johnson
  * Gray report
  * Conservatives
  * Cost of living crisis
  * Household bills
  * Consumer affairs
  * features

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

