Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 10, 202210:50 AM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Europe

# Switzerland adopts new EU sanctions against Russia, Belarus

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

1 minute read

![Illustration shows letters arranged to read ](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/P4G3KIODNFIJXPODFSRO6Q6ZQQ.jpg)

Plastic letters arranged to read "Sanctions" are placed in front flag colors
of Switzerland and Russia in this illustration taken February 28, 2022.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

BERLIN, June 10 (Reuters) - Switzerland has adopted new EU sanctions against
Belarus and Russia, also imposing financial and travel sanctions on 100
additional individuals and entities, including oligarch Aleksandra
Melnichenko, the Federal Council said on Friday.

The Swiss list of sanctioned individuals and entities, which is the same as
the European Union's, includes military personnel held responsible for
atrocities committed in Bucha, individuals active in the fields of politics
and disinformation and certain oligarchs and their family members, it said.

The council also approved the exclusion of four new Russian and Belarusian
banks, including Sberbank (SBER.MM), Russia's largest, from the SWIFT
transaction system was also approved.

The amendments come into force at 1600 GMT on Friday.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Miranda Murray, editing by Thomas Escritt

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Europe

  * U.S. confident Nato's strategy document will be "strong" on China, official says, article with imageWorld · June 26, 2022 · 12:34 PM UTC

The U.S. is confident that NATO's new strategy document will include "strong"
language on China, a White House official said on Sunday, adding that
negotiations on how to refer to Beijing were still underway.

  * Video

EuropeRussia's defense minister visits troops involved in Ukraine operation,
article with video2:57 PM UTC

  * WorldG7 leaders to discuss Iran nuclear talks revival, French official says, article with image1:15 PM UTC

  * EuropeEurope must give developing nations alternative to Chinese funds, von der Leyen says, article with image4:12 PM UTC

  * EuropeFrance backs Russian gold ban, wants G7 oil, gas price shield, article with image10:40 AM UTC

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

