Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionClockwise from top left; Ellis Genge of Leicester, Lewis Ludlam of
Northampton, Harlequins’ Marcus Smith and Nick Tompkins of Saracens.
Composite: Getty, Shutterstock

The Breakdown

# Premiership semi-finals: home bankers or more knockout surprises?

Tigers and Sarries are favourites, but Saints’ brilliant backs and Quins’ 2021
heroics mean nothing can be taken for granted

Robert Kitson

Tue 7 Jun 2022 06.30 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

 _ **Welcome to The Breakdown, the Guardian’s weekly (and free) rugby union
newsletter. Here’s an extract from this week’s edition. To receive the full
version every Tuesday, just pop your email in below**_ :

Sometimes it is worth remembering how swiftly things can change, in club rugby
as well as politics. This time a year ago, for example, fourth-placed
Harlequins were still seen as distant long shots to win the Gallagher
Premiership, only 10,000 could watch the final because of Covid-19 and the
United Rugby Championship, containing South Africa’s top sides, had yet to be
launched.

Who could have foreseen that Quins, in particular, would be crowned champions
when Bristol took a 28-0 lead in their semi-final? Or even that Exeter Chiefs,
31-26 up entering the last furlong, would be pipped at the last? Or that
neither Bristol nor Exeter would make this current season’s top six, with
once-mighty Bath finishing stone-cold bottom?

It is almost as if rugby union is trying to mirror the changing climate: more
extreme episodes than back in the day, sudden departures from the traditional
orthodoxy, a new normal materialising in real time. Which is why this year’s
knockout stages, across Europe, are not as easy to call as they might
otherwise be.

Premiership hits jackpot with two mouthwatering semi-finals | Gerard Meagher

Most available logic, for example, points to a Leicester v Saracens
Premiership final and has done so for months. The Tigers have assembled the
most unyielding pack in the league while Saracens, from Owen Farrell
downwards, still have a steely conviction in their own ability. The tough edge
that has propelled them to the top two after nine relentless months should, by
rights, be enough to see off Northampton and Quins respectively on Saturday.

But hang on. Look at the stats and they scream something else: that knockout
rugby is very different. In the past 11 years the side finishing top of the
regular season table has gone on to win the title only three times. Leicester
may feel they have already climbed a significant mountain but in many ways the
hardest part is yet to come.

To make matter worse their semi-final opponents, Northampton, are on a
significant roll. Of their last seven matches of the season they have won six
and averaged just shy of 40 points a game. They have topped the league’s try
chart with 99 in 24 games. Yes, Leicester have beaten them home and away but
on a harder, faster track it is far from impossible that the Saints’ dextrous
backs – few sides move the ball more sweetly – and probing half-backs can
cause a few flutters.

It is the same with Quins, whose capacity to conjure tries from anywhere on
the pitch was again gloriously evident, albeit in defeat, at Exeter last
weekend. They, too, have lost twice to Saracens in the league already this
season but on neither occasion was Marcus Smith or Owen Farrell involved. The
duel between the two likely midfield colleagues on this summer’s England tour
to Australia will be another fascinating subplot at the StoneX Stadium.

There is a recurring theme here: good, hard, tough home teams versus dangerous
attacking opponents with nothing to lose. Deprive Quins and Saints of the ball
and the outcomes will be all but inevitable: give them a chance in a loose,
frenetic encounter and anything could happen. But there is also an element of
teams being able – or otherwise – to find another gear at the end of a long,
arduous campaign. Not so much a Darwinian-type survival of the fittest as of
the freshest. The team who can keep believing the longest will generally win.

Harlequins’ 2021 triumph was a reminder that odds can be upset on the biggest
occasion. Photograph: Nigel French/PA

That, ultimately, is what characterised La Rochelle’s European title victory
over Leinster in Marseille – collectively they had made up their minds earlier
in the week that, this time, victory would be theirs. No matter about the form
book or Leinster’s pedigree or the backdrop, this was their moment. And so it
came to pass. There is also no question that past disappointments helped to
sharpen their hunger.

In that respect you fancy Leicester, Saracens and Leinster will all be
bursting to prove a no-nonsense point this weekend. Even if their respective
contests do shake loose eventually, it would be unwise to underestimate how
much all three teams have been stung lately. Leicester, having been turned
over by Leinster at home in Europe, are absolutely refusing to countenance a
repeat. Saracens are still on their post-salary cap redemption mission and
look grimly determined to reach their first final for three years. And
Leinster, having been denied at the last by La Rochelle, are too good a side
not to bounce back hard at home to the Bulls in the URC semis.

So what to expect this weekend? Will gung-ho risk-taking or true grit win the
day? Emotion or pragmatism? None of it, actually. What will carry the day is
the quality that so often defines big sporting occasions: sheer bloody-minded
belief. Not knowing when you are beaten, never giving up, refusing to settle
for second best. A decent tactical gameplan, yes, but powered by an
unshakeable collective desire. Last year that was Quins’ point of difference
but they, and Saints, may soon find that, even in a fast-changing world,
certain imperatives remain the same.

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Rugby union
  * The Breakdown

  * Premiership
  * Saracens
  * Northampton
  * Leicester
  * Harlequins
  * features

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View commentsView on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

