Advertisement

![News18
Logo](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

CHANGE LANGUAGE

English

हिन्दी বাংলা मराठी ગુજરાતી ಕನ್ನಡ தமிழ் മലയാളം తెలుగు ਪੰਜਾਬੀ اردو অসমীয়া ଓଡ଼ିଆ

**WATCH LIVE TV**

 **DOWNLOAD News18 APP**

 **Follow Us On**

Trending Topics :#Movies **#EknathShinde**#Agnipath **#Coronavirus**

![News18
Logo](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * Home
  * Showsha
  * Politics
  * India
  * Cricket
  * World
  * Education
  * Business
  * Buzz 
  * Opinion
  * Photos
  * Videos
  * Tracker

  * 

  * Home
  * Showsha
  * Politics
  * India
  * Cricket
  * World
  * Education
  * Business
  * Buzz 
  * Opinion
  * Photos
  * Videos
  * Movies
  * Web Stories
  * Tech
  * Auto 
  * Health
  * Lifestyle
  * Sports
  * Astrology
  * Travel
  * Football
  * Food
  *   * Tennis
  * Power Circuit
  * BYJU’S Young Genius
  * Markets
  * Tax
  * Cryptocurrency
  * Savings and Investments
  * Money Matters
  * Breaking News

Latest **Board Exam Results**MoviesLifestyleExplainersTechAutoSportsWeb
StoriesLive TVCryptocurrency#ItsNotOK

  * Latest
  *  **Board Exam Results**
  * Movies
  * Lifestyle
  * Explainers
  * Tech
  * Auto
  * Sports
  * Web Stories
  * Live TV
  * Cryptocurrency
  * #ItsNotOK
  * ![Netra Suraksh](https://images.news18.com/static_news18/pix/ibnhome/news18/netra-suraksha.jpg)

Home »  News »  Politics » Aaditya Thackeray in Ayodhya: Why the Temple Town
Has Become Touchstone for Every Political Party

3-MIN READ

#  Aaditya Thackeray in Ayodhya: Why the Temple Town Has Become Touchstone for
Every Political Party

![Maharashtra Minister Aaditya Thackeray speaks as Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut
looks on during a press conference, in Ayodhya, Wednesday, June 15, 2022.
\(PTI Photo\)](https://images.news18.com/ibnlive/uploads/2022/06/untitled-
design-2022-06-15t180831.732-16552968633x2.jpg?impolicy=website&width=510&height=356)

Maharashtra Minister Aaditya Thackeray speaks as Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut
looks on during a press conference, in Ayodhya, Wednesday, June 15, 2022. (PTI
Photo)

## Aaditya Thackeray’s visit seems to remind the Sena’s support base about the
original purveyors of Hindutva. AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal had also visited
Ayodhya in October to woo Ram 'bhakts' while BSP promised to expedite Ram
Temple construction if voted to power in UP

  * News18.com
  * Last Updated:June 15, 2022, 18:11 IST
  * FOLLOW US ON:

FacebookTwitterInstagramTelegramGoogle News

News Desk

A young leader like Aaditya Thackeray visiting Ayodhya underlines the fact
that the place holds a larger significance in Indian politics. Although the
Shiv Sena has called his visit “non-political”, Ayodhya has become a
touchstone for any party to achieve political success or a metaphor for
Hindutva ideology.

This is Aaditya’s first solo trip to the temple town. He had earlier
accompanied his father and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.
Aaditya’s, Maharashtra’s tourism and environment minister, visit assumes
significance as the Opposition BJP and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) had
targeted the Shiv Sena and accused it of not following Hindutva. MNS chief Raj
Thackeray had announced his visit to Ayodhya ahead of Aaditya’s but the plan
got shelved as a BJP MP opposed his visit and demanded his apology for
insulting north Indians a few years ago.

“Ayodhya’s importance, more than just a site of the dispute over the birth
place of Lord Ram, was as a constant cipher in shaping post-independence
politics,” said Prof. Pralay Kanungo, academic and author of RSS’s Tryst with
Politics: From Hedgewar to Sudarshan, as mentioned in The Hindu.

#### Political Significance

The Ram Mandir movement began gaining ground in 1989 when Vishva Hindu
Parishad performed a foundation stone-laying ceremony at the disputed Ram
Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site. The movement reached it acme in 1991 after
former deputy Prime Minister LK Advani began the Rath Yatra from Gujarat in
1990 to make people aware about the Ram Janmabhoomi issue and gain support for
Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.

Since 1991, Ayodhya has always voted for a BJP MLA except only once when the
Samajwadi Party won in 2012. In eight Lok Sabha elections, during the same
period, the BJP won five times, according to The Hindu.

Recently, at a rally in Mumbai, Uddhav had criticised BJP and MNS for
“distorting” the idea of Hindutva, and also took a dig at the RSS, saying it
never participated in the freedom fight against the British. The CM had also
claimed that it was late Sena chief Bal Thackeray who showed BJP the idea of
“saffron and Hindutva” to help achieve power at the Centre.

Aaditya’s visit seems to remind the party’s support base about the original
purveyors of Hindutva. Although Shiv Sena MLC Manisha Kayande reportedly said
Aaditya’s visit is simply a “pilgrimage” and not about “showing off our
Hindutva”.

> #WATCH Shiv Sena leader & Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray offers
> prayers at Hanuman Garhi in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya
> pic.twitter.com/7D588cgdN4
>
> — ANI UP/Uttarakhand (@ANINewsUP) June 15, 2022

Aam Aadmi Party convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also
visited Ayodhya last year in October in an attempt to woo Ram bhakts and
reportedly show their Right side. Soon after visiting the Ayodhya, Kejriwal
announced free pilgrimage plan to the temple town. His visit gained
significance ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. The party even
said it would establish “Ram Rajya in UP” if voted to power.

Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati had also promised to expedite
construction of Ram Temple if the party was voted to power in Uttar Pradesh.
BSP’s stand contradicted to its core ideology that centre on Dalit vote.

#### Ram Mandir in Politico-Cultural Space

Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had recently laid the foundation stone for
sanctum sanctorum, ‘garbhagriha’ of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya to mark the
beginning of the next phase of temple construction. The temple is expected to
be open for the public by 2024.

It is to be noted that over the years, Ayodhya has captured the politico-
cultural space in the country just like Varanasi, Haridwar and Rishikesh,
according to Prof Kanungo. “It won’t surprise me if the developments around
this pilgrimage site become a space for debating the singular questions on
Hinduism,” he says, as quoted by The Hindu.

VHP president Rabindra Narain Singh had said in December that Ram Janmabhoomi
shrine in Ayodhya would develop on the lines of Vatican City and the Mecca,
and would emerge as the symbol of Hindutva, as reported by PTI.

Read all the Latest News , Breaking News , watch Top Videos and Live TV here.

Tags

  * Aaditya Thackeray
  * ayodhya
  * Ayodhya Ram temple
  * BJP Hindutva
  * bjp vs shiv sena
  * Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray
  * CM Yogi Adityanath
  * Ram Janmabhoomi

first published:June 15, 2022, 17:50 IST

## More News

  * ![Saryu Aarti, Ram Mandir: With Ayodhya Visit, Shiv Sena to Pass On Hindutva Baton to Aaditya Thackeray](https://images.news18.com/ibnlive/uploads/2021/07/1627283897_news18_logo-1200x800.jpg)

Saryu Aarti, Ram Mandir: With Ayodhya Visit, Shiv Sena to Pass On Hindutva
Baton to Aaditya Thackeray

  * ![Maharashtra Minister Aaditya Thackeray to Visit Ayodhya on June 15](https://images.news18.com/ibnlive/uploads/2021/07/1627283897_news18_logo-1200x800.jpg)

Maharashtra Minister Aaditya Thackeray to Visit Ayodhya on June 15

  *   * ![Phase 1 of Indian Railways’ Ram Mandir-themed Ayodhya Station to be Completed by Year-End; Check Photos](https://images.news18.com/ibnlive/uploads/2021/07/1627283897_news18_logo-1200x800.jpg)

Phase 1 of Indian Railways’ Ram Mandir-themed Ayodhya Station to be Completed
by Year-End; Check Photos

  * !['500 Years of Sadhna to Siddhi': CM Yogi Performs Puja for ‘Garbh Griha’ of Ayodhya Ram Temple](https://images.news18.com/ibnlive/uploads/2021/07/1627283897_news18_logo-1200x800.jpg)

'500 Years of Sadhna to Siddhi': CM Yogi Performs Puja for ‘Garbh Griha’ of
Ayodhya Ram Temple

  * ![2nd Phase of Ram Temple Construction Will Start After Foundation-Laying Ceremony: UP Deputy CM](https://images.news18.com/ibnlive/uploads/2021/07/1627283897_news18_logo-1200x800.jpg)

2nd Phase of Ram Temple Construction Will Start After Foundation-Laying
Ceremony: UP Deputy CM

## Photogallery

  * ![Malaika Arora And Arjun Kapoor Enjoy Romantic Holiday In Paris, Check Out The Couple's Adorable Pictures](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)

Malaika Arora And Arjun Kapoor Enjoy Romantic Holiday In Paris, Check Out The
Couple's Adorable Pictures

10PHOTOS

  * ![Nora Fatehi, Kiara Advani, Deepika Padukone, Malaika Arora, Janhvi Kapoor Among Best Dressed Celebrities This Week](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)

Nora Fatehi, Kiara Advani, Deepika Padukone, Malaika Arora, Janhvi Kapoor
Among Best Dressed Celebrities This Week

10PHOTOS

TRENDING TOPICS

 __Movies __Eknath Shinde __Agnipath __Entertainment __Cricket __Coronavirus
__Samantha Ruth Prabhu __Bollywood __Narendra Modi __Uddhav Thackeray __Rohit
Sharma __Kangana Ranaut __Malaika Arora __Virat Kohli __Priyanka Chopra Jonas
__Salman Khan __Disha Patani __Kareena Kapoor Khan __Political Whispers __Gold
Price Today

HOT ON SOCIAL

RRRLock UppSamantha AkkineniNia SharmaKangana RanautTaarak Mehta Ka Ooltah
ChashmahIndian Premier LeagueFormula OneBigg BossPro Kabaddi LeagueShah Rukh
KhanBTSJanhvi KapoorNora FatehiAmit ShahKatrina KaifTaimur Ali KhanMumbai
IndiansYogi Adityanath

POPULAR CATEGORIES

LatestIndiaMovies WorldPolitics BuzzAutoTech VideosPhotosWeb Stories Cricket
NewsExplainersEntertainmentOpinion LifestyleBusinessEducation-
CareerCryptocurrencyTown Hall

LANGUAGE SITES

Hindi NewsMarathi NewsGujarati NewsBengali NewsTamil NewsTelugu NewsKannada
NewsMalayalam NewsPunjabi NewsUrdu NewsAssam NewsOdia News

Network18 Group Sites

TopperLearningCricketNextMoneycontrolFirstpostCNBCTV18History IndiaMTV
IndiaClear Study DoubtsEducation Franchisee OpportunityCAprep18

LIVE TV __

![](https://images.news18.com/static_news18/pix/ibnhome/news18/megamenu/News18_logo.svg)

About UsCookie PolicyDisclaimerContact UsRSSComplaint RedressalAdvertise with
Us

Follow us on

 __ __ __ __ __

Download News18 App

 __ __

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2020 Cable News Network LP,
LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are
registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP, displayed with permission.
Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of NEWS18.com does not derogate
from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of
them. © Copyright Network18 Media and Investments Ltd 2020. All rights
reserved.

![bsi](https://images.news18.com/static_news18/pix/ibnhome/news18/css/desktop/new_footer/BSI-
Logo-Desktop.svg)

