BBC Homepage

  * Skip to content
  * Accessibility Help

  * Your account

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * More menu

More menu

Search BBC

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

Close menu

BBC News

Menu

  * Home
  * War in Ukraine
  * Coronavirus
  * Climate
  * Video
  * World
  * US & Canada
  * UK
  * Business
  * Tech
  * Science

More

  * Stories
  * Entertainment & Arts
  * Health
  * In Pictures
  * Reality Check
  * World News TV
  * Newsbeat
  * Long Reads

  * World
  * Africa
  * Asia
  * Australia
  * Europe
  * Latin America
  * Middle East

# Cameroon's Mankon people mourn 'missing' king and welcome successor

 **By Randy Joe Sa'ah**  
BBC News, Bamenda

Published

    9 June

Share

close

Share page

Copy link

About sharing

![King who has
"disappeared"](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/903A/production/_125322963_mediaitem125322962.jpg)

 **For the people of Mankon in the grass-fields of north-west Cameroon, their
king - known as the fon or fo - never dies. He simply disappears.**

So the regional governor Adolphe Lele incurred the wrath of the Mankon people
when he broke a taboo by announcing the death of the 97-year-old Fon Angwafor
III late last month.

"The fon is the custodian of all land in Mankon. He is the very source of our
cultural spring. He is the fountain of our spirituality. He is the bridge
between the yesteryears, the here and now and the aftertime," says barrister
Joseph Fru Awah, a Mankon notable.

Having ascended to the throne in 1959, Fon Angwafor III was the first monarch
to acquire a western education. He went to school in the days when royal
children were kept out of classrooms to protect them from what was seen
something for commoners.

He furthered his studies by qualifying as an agro-technician in a nation where
farming is part of the daily lives of many people.

Like all Mankon monarchs, he was a polygamist and, in accordance with
tradition, the number of wives he had was never disclosed. But to say that he
had about a dozen would be a conservative estimate. He is also thought to be
survived by dozens of children.

Fon Angwafor III was frequently referred to as King Solomon the Wise by his
subjects.

"He always sounded like a teacher. Each time I met him, I would go away with
some food for thought and plenty of humour," said Eveline Fung, who met the
king on numerous occasions.

![Crowds at
palace](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/12E46/production/_125328377_84a6595d-154c-4311-82a6-958e95eb7000.jpg)Image
source, BBC/Randy Joe Sa'ah

Image caption,

Mourning for the monarch was followed by celebrations after the new king was
enthroned

But he had his fair share of critics. When colonial rule ended in the 1960s,
he was one of the architects of the unification of English- and French-
controlled territory into what is now Cameroon.

Mankon is one of the biggest kingdoms in English-speaking Cameroon, home to
hundreds of thousands of people.

Some of those who advocate English-speaking Cameroon's secession have never
forgiven Fon Angwafor III for supporting unification.

Rare for a monarch, he also served in parliament, making history by becoming
Cameroon's first - and only - independent MP from 1962 to 1988.

In 1990, he became the national vice-president of the ruling party under Paul
Biya, Cameroon's authoritarian president. He remained in the post until his
"disappearance".

His critics felt that as a monarch, he should not have got involved in
partisan politics. But he defended his decision, insisting that he was "the
father of all" and his involvement in politics was aimed at advancing the
development of communities.

## Taboo to shed tears

It took three long weeks for the Kwifor, the secretive supreme council of
Makon kingmakers, to formally declare the "disappearance" of the king.

Until then, people whispered phrases like "there is smoke in the palace", and
refused to even say that their monarch had "disappeared" - although he had
already been "inhumed" at a sacred place unknown to the public. The Mankon
regard it as taboo to say that their king has been buried.

![Crowds at
palace](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/BC40/production/_125329184_46715b81-13ed-4002-8377-c59b41ca79c7.png)Image
source, BBC/Randy Joe Sa'ah

Image caption,

Mankon men are not allowed to wear caps during the mourning period

![1px transparent
line](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/624/cpsprodpb/4BEB/production/_112953491__108802839_624_transparent-
nc.png)

Once the announcement of his "disappearance" was made on 29 May, men did not
wear caps, and women did not farm as a mark of respect for the monarch.

The mourning culminated on 7 June when tens of thousands of people turned up
at the 300-year-old royal palace in Bamenda - a city with a population of
500,000 and the heartland of the Mankon.

But no-one shed a tear. It is an abomination to cry for a missing fon.

## Pebbles thrown at new king

Both women and men were dressed in skirts made from dried banana stems, or
bamboo. Their upper bodies were bare, except for the women who wore black
bras.

Flanked by members of the Kwifor, the new king - son of Fon Angwafor III -
walked into the palace courtyard, barefoot and bare-chested, with only a white
cloth wrapped around his waist.

![New king of Mankon people, with a
stick](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/9530/production/_125329183_2585e40f-4536-4838-be62-e9c26842f0f1.png)Image
source, BBC/Randy Joe Sa'ah

Image caption,

The new king, seen with a stick, was introduced to his subjects

![1px transparent
line](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/624/cpsprodpb/4BEB/production/_112953491__108802839_624_transparent-
nc.png)

The crowd gently threw pebbles and small stones, grass and leaves, at him in a
symbolic ritual to show that this was the last time that any commoner would
hurt him or be disrespectful towards him.

As he was pelted, he sprinted away into the palace while his subjects walked
to nearby streams to wash off the ash they had smeared on their bodies.

They then changed into their best traditional outfits - including colourful
handmade gowns and headgear - before returning to the royal courtyard.

It was a time of joy and and celebration to mark the "reincarnation" of the
missing fon into his successor.

"He, Fon Angwafor III, reigns, then he is missing, as if to retreat and
rejuvenate and then he reappears with a renewed verve and flare to rekindle
the ever-burning and -blazing flame of Mankon nationhood," says the secretary
general of the Mankon Traditional Council, Ntomnifor Richard Fru.

And so Angwafor John Asaah, chosen by the "missing" king as his heir, emerged
from the palace.

Dressed in a reddish loincloth, he was raised on to an intricately carved
stool by the Kwikfor to signify that he had been "enstooled" - as the Mankon
people call the enthronement of their king.

![New king on his
stool](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/6E20/production/_125329182_c339c21c-f54d-4267-9089-8be0c94758ac.jpg)Image
source, BBC/Randy Joe Sa'ah

Image caption,

The new monarch sat on a stool which symbolises his throne

The crowd went wild with joy at the palace plaza when, for the first time, the
Kwifor declared his new names: Fo Fru Asa-ah Ndefru Angwafor IV.

"Who would want to miss an event that has taken 63 years to happen?" said
Adeline Nguti, who had gone to the palace to witness the historic occasion.

"The next one might not happen in my lifetime."

Her twin sister Irene added: "We are all here to welcome our new king in
strict traditional fashion. This is what our culture demands. I hope the new
fon will be a great custodian of our tradition, just as his father."

![People at
palace](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/E350/production/_125329185_3a2309bd-f135-4afe-9c8d-d646ea0ce0db.png)Image
source, BBC/Randy Joe Sa'ah

Image caption,

The coronation of the king was a once-in-a-lifetime event for many people

But one ritual was missing - the celebratory gunfire of Mankon men, with their
hunting rifles. The government banned guns - normally fired at cultural
ceremonies - some time ago because of the insurgency waged by armed groups
demanding the secession of English-speaking Cameroon.

It was a poignant reminder of the conflict that has hit the region since 2017.
Many hope the new king will help achieve peace.

## You may also be interested in:

  * Why separatists in Cameroon and Nigeria have united
  * Burning Cameroon: Images you're not meant to see
  * Death of a Zulu king: 'He is planted, not buried'
  * Remembering the straight-talking king of the Zulus

## Related Topics

  * Cameroon

## Top Stories

  * Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

Published

    1 hour ago

  * What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

Published

    4 hours ago

  * Chaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest. VideoChaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest

Published

    6 hours ago

## Features

  * Helping families locate the missing in Ukraine war

![Ukrainian servicemen leave the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Ukraine, 20
May
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/E416/production/_125609385_hi076160151.jpg)

  * Pots, trays, tubs - consumers confront their plastic footprint

![Jules Birkby's daughter was shocked by how much plastic they used in a
week](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/15EB5/production/_125618798_theplasticcount-
emmyisshocked.jpg)

  * G7 face battle for unity as cost of war mounts

![unexploded bomb in
kharkiv](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/8C8D/production/_125618953_mediaitem125618951.jpg)

  * The priceless Nigerian sculpture stuck with UK police

![The stolen Ife
bronze](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/C25B/production/_125555794_bp2_976_2.png)

  * Inside Ukraine's International Legion. VideoInside Ukraine's International Legion

![Ukrainian International Legion
Soldiers](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/27CF/production/_125619101_p0ch58xk.jpg)

  * The Indians choosing not to have children. VideoThe Indians choosing not to have children

![A growing number of Indian are deciding to never become parents. The BBC
spoke to a few to find out
why](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/14B34/production/_125588748_p0cgnfnd.jpg)

  * How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

![Sullivan
family](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/113F7/production/_125574607_sullivans.jpg)

  * Four things we've learned from Jan 6 hearings

![Liz Cheney speaks during the fifth hearing by the House Select Committee to
investigation the 6 January attack on the US
Capitol](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/A9EB/production/_125599434_d20ed912-f529-4d06-b300-87ebc8a3dc05.jpg)

  * The surprising reason more Americans are turning to psychedelic drugs

![Brain surrounded by psychedelic
colours](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/11E4A/production/_125609237_screenshot2022-06-24at15.45.08.png)

## Elsewhere on the BBC

  * Why top chefs are leaving Paris

"It started before Covid, but it was discreet"

![Berry Tart and food](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/47E7/production/_125570481_parischefsleaving.jpg)

  * The films bringing sex work to life

Has cinema perpetuated damaging stereotypes?

![people on bed](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/15957/production/_125570488_sexworkfilms.jpg)

  * Has human progress peaked?

A growing and influential intellectual movement aims to understand why human
progress happens – and how to speed it up

![night photographer](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/D4EB/production/_125570545_humanprogresspeaked.jpg)

## Most Read

  1. 1Prince Charles 'accepted a suitcase with 1m euros'

  2. 2Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

  3. 3What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

  4. 4South African police investigate nightclub deaths

  5. 5US firms pledge to pay abortion travel expenses

  6. 6G7 leaders meet amid political pressures at home

  7. 7U2 singer Bono discovered he has a half-brother

  8. 8How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

  9. 9The world reacts to US abortion ruling

  10. 10Russia on brink of default as debt deadline looms

## BBC News Services

  * On your mobile
  * On smart speakers
  * Get news alerts
  * Contact BBC News

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

  * Terms of Use
  * About the BBC
  * Privacy Policy
  * Cookies
  * Accessibility Help
  * Parental Guidance
  * Contact the BBC
  * Get Personalised Newsletters
  * Why you can trust the BBC
  * Advertise with us
  * AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info

© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read
about our approach to external linking.

![](https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/p?c1=2&c2=17986528&cs_ucfr=0&cv=2.0&cj=1)

