Friday, June 24, 2022

  * English
  * हिन्दी

iOSAndroid

Facebook Twitter You tube Sign in

![IndiaTV-English News](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-
web/images/sitelogo.png)

Live tv

search __

  * home![indiatvnews.com](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/logo_1.png)
  * Videos

  * India

  * World

  * Entertainment

  * Sports

  * Tech

  * Photos

  * Health

  * Business

  * Trending

  * Astrology

  * Live TV

  * ____

  *     * Lifestyle
    * Politics
    * Auto
    * Opinion
    * Science
    * Crime
    * FYI
    * Jobs
    * Education
    * Latest News
    * Results
    * Brand Content
    * Russia Ukraine
    * Samvaad
    * हिन्दी

  1. You Are At:
  2. English News
  3. India
  4. Rahul Gandhi's 'patience' remark citing Sachin Pilot sparks political speculations in Rajasthan

# Rahul Gandhi's 'patience' remark citing Sachin Pilot sparks political
speculations in Rajasthan

## When Congress MLAs were recently camping in Udaipur ahead of the Rajya
Sabha polls, Pilot was seen touring the border cities of Rajasthan and Punjab,
where he drew a large crowd.

![Sheenu Sharma](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-
web/images/authors/default_author_image.jpg) Edited by: Sheenu Sharma
__@20Sheenu New Delhi Updated on: June 24, 2022 11:28 IST

____________ URL copied

Follow us on ![Google News](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-
web/images/googlenewsimage.svg)

![Rahul Gandhi patience remark citing Sachin Pilot sparks political
speculations in Rajasthan, latest ](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-
web/images/lazy-big.jpg) Image Source : PTI/ REPRESENTATIONAL (FILE).

Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Sachin Pilot attended a meeting.

## Highlights

  * Rahul Gandhi's remark 'Congress party teaches patience' has triggered fresh speculations 
  * This statement of the Congress leader triggered speculations over the party leadership in Rajasthan 
  * Party leaders in Rajasthan are speculating if there is possibility of major change in state politics 

**_Rajasthan political news_** : Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's remark on
Wednesday (June 22) that "Congress party teaches patience", during which he
referred to Sachin Pilot, has triggered fresh speculations over the party
leadership in Rajasthan.

Sharing the experience of his recent ED grilling with the party workers at the
AICC headquarters in Delhi on Wednesday, Rahul Gandhi said, "The ED officials
asked me about the patience with which I answered their questions...I'm in
Congress since 2004, patience is inculcated in us and every leader of the
party understands this."

He then said, "Congress party teaches patience. I am working since 2004,
Sachin Pilot is sitting here, Siddaramaiah ji is here."

Following the former Congress chief's remarks, party leaders in Rajasthan are
speculating if there is a possibility of a major change in state politics.

As soon as the video of Rahul Gandhi's speech went viral, senior leaders
holding plum posts started calling each other to discuss the status quo in
Rajasthan.

_**Know more about the matter:**_

A senior leader told news agency IANS, "Why did Rahul Gandhi make this comment
at this point of time? It seems something big is cooking."

Another leader said that while the CM's chair seems stable as of now, as a big
drama is unfolding in Maharashtra, Pilot can be again appointed as Rajasthan
Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief.

In 2020, Pilot had rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's leadership
by heading to Manesar along with 18 MLAs. Soon after, he was removed both as
Rajasthan PCC chief and Deputy Chief Minister.

Since then, a cold war-like situation has existed between the two factions
headed by Gehlot and Pilot.

In the three-and-a-half-year rule of the present Congress government, there
have been many discussions of leadership change, but Gehlot has managed hold
fort by keeping his MLAs together.

Related Stories

![ED summons Rahul Gandhi for questioning for 5th day on June
21](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

### ED summons Rahul Gandhi for questioning for 5th day on June 21

![Rahul Gandhi reappears before ED in money laundering case
](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

### Rahul Gandhi reappears before ED in money laundering case

![National Herald Case: Rahul Gandhi questioned for nearly 12 hours till
Tuesday midnight](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-
small.jpg)

### National Herald Case: Rahul Gandhi questioned for nearly 12 hours till
Tuesday midnight

![Cong's Mahila wing Prez caught spitting on cops during protest against
Rahul's questioning | Watch](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-
web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

### Cong's Mahila wing Prez caught spitting on cops during protest against
Rahul's questioning | Watch

_**Meanwhile, Pilot has been busy visiting different places and meeting his
followers.**_

When Congress MLAs were recently camping in Udaipur ahead of the Rajya Sabha
polls, Pilot was seen touring the border cities of Rajasthan and Punjab, where
he drew a large crowd.

Now Rahul Gandhi's statement has triggered fresh speculations as Pilot is a
sitting MLA without any post since 2020.

Senior Congress leader and a staunch Pilot supporter, Sushil Asopa, tweeted,
"Rahul Gandhi said that Sachin Pilot is sitting patiently. Pilot can be
patient, but the people of Rajasthan can't remain patient as they wanted to
see Pilot as Rajasthan CM in 2018."

_**(With IANS inputs)**_

**ALSO READ:PM Narendra Modi will have to withdraw 'Agnipath scheme': Rahul
Gandhi**

**ALSO READ:National Herald Case: Rahul Gandhi questioned for nearly 12 hours
till Tuesday midnight**

Latest India News

  * Rahul Gandhi
  * sachin pilot
  * rajasthan
  * ashok gehlot
  * politics

Watch Live News : ![Watch Live News](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-
web/images/logo_1.png)

____________ URL copied

Top News

  * ![eknath shinde latest news ](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

Eknath Shinde EXCLUSIVE: 'No offer from BJP yet; have support of 40 Shiv Sena,
12 Independent MLAs'

  * ![Sanjay Dutt, Ranbir Kapoor](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

Shamshera Trailer OUT: Ranbir Kapoor-Sanjay's intense face-off is spine
chilling in dacoit thriller

  * ![Day 3: MP vs Mumbai - Ranji Trophy final](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

LIVE MUM vs MP Live Cricket Score Ranji Trophy Final Day 3 Updates: Dubey hits
a ton; MP 229-1

  * ![Actresses acing black gowns and deep necklines](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

Black gowns and plunging necklines, Sara to Anushka Sharma, Bollywood beauties
acing the look

  * ![Actresses acing black gowns and deep necklines](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

Black gowns and plunging necklines, Sara to Anushka Sharma, Bollywood beauties
acing the look

  * ![jet airways, jet airways hiring, jet airways cabin crew](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

Jet Airways starts operational hiring, invites former cabin crew to rejoin

  * ![BGMI, gaming, battleground Mobile India, tech news, gaming](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

BGMI brings in new characters from The Great British Teddy Bear Company

Latest News

  * ![Aaj Ki Baat with Rajat Sharma, Aaj ki baat, Aaj ki Baat blog, Maharashtra political crisis, Maharash](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

OPINION | Is it going to be Thackeray-Mukt Shiv Sena now?

  * ![Day 3: MP vs Mumbai - Ranji Trophy final](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

LIVE MUM vs MP Live Cricket Score Ranji Trophy Final Day 3 Updates: Dubey hits
a ton; MP 229-1

  * ![Sanjay Dutt, Ranbir Kapoor](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

Shamshera Trailer OUT: Ranbir Kapoor-Sanjay's intense face-off is spine
chilling in dacoit thriller

  * ![Aaron Finch](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy-small.jpg)

LIVE SL vs AUS 5th ODI, Live Cricket Score Latest Updates: Toss at 2:00 PM

__

India TV :

  * ##### Contact Us

  * ##### About Us

  * ##### Advertise

  * ##### Complaint Redressal

  * ##### In the Press

  * ##### Investors Column

  * ##### 21 Years Aap ki Adalat

  * ##### Hindi News

  * ##### Live TV

Be connected :

  * ##### Mobile Zone

  * ##### Facebook

  * ##### Twitter

  * ##### Fan Blogs on Wordpress

  * ##### Fan Blogs on Blogspot

  * ##### India Tv Contest Hints

Other Services :

  * ##### Live TV

  * ##### Trending

  * ##### Photos

  * ##### Videos

  * ##### Hindi Samachar

  * ##### Latest News in Hindi

  * ##### News India

  * ##### Sports News

  * ##### Business News India

  * ##### Business News

  * ##### Stock Market Live

  * ##### Gold Price

 ____________

© 2009-2022 Independent News Service. All rights reserved.

Site Map|Legal disclaimer|Privacy Policy|CSR Policy|Complaint Redressal | Rss

  * ![indiatvnews.com](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/logo_1.png)
  * Videos

    * Videos
    * Aap Ki Adalat
    * Aaj Ki Baat
    * Astrology
    * Kurukshetra 
    * Muqabla
    * Super 100
    * Haqiqat Kya Hai
    * Entertainment
    * Lifestyle
    * Sports
    * Elections
    * OMG

    * ![How will Agneepath become your Vijaypath? Know remedies from Swami Ramdev to become a true Agniveer](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

How will Agneepath become your Vijaypath? Know remedies from Swami Ramdev to
become a true Agniveer __

    * ![Today Horoscope, Daily Astrology, Zodiac Sign for Friday June 24, 2022](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Today Horoscope, Daily Astrology, Zodiac Sign for Friday June 24, 2022 __

    * ![Super 100: Watch the latest news from India and around the world | June 24, 2022](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Super 100: Watch the latest news from India and around the world | June 24,
2022 __

    * ![Aaj Ki Baat: Eknath Shinde parades his 45 MLAs including 37 Shiv Sena MLAs, in Guwahati](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Aaj Ki Baat: Eknath Shinde parades his 45 MLAs including 37 Shiv Sena MLAs, in
Guwahati __

    * ![Haqiqat Kya Hai | How Uddhav's strength decreased and Eknath Shinde's strength increased](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Haqiqat Kya Hai | How Uddhav's strength decreased and Eknath Shinde's strength
increased __

  * India

    * ![Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut addresses a press conference](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Maharashtra crisis: Union Minister threatening Sharad Pawar, claims Sanjay
Raut __

    * ![CBI, bank fraud case, CBi search premises of banks, Delhi raids, CBI, bank fraud case, CBi search pr](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

CBI searches five locations in bank fraud case against Delhi company

    * ![No plans for separate state of North Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai, Umesh Katti, Umesh Katti karnata](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

No plans for 'separate state' of North Karnataka: CM Basavaraj Bommai __

    * ![Gujarat riots case, narendra Modi, Modi, Zakia Jafri, Gujarat riots Modi, Zakia Jafri Gujarat riots,](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/befunky-collage-1656048379.jpg)

Gujarat riots: SC dismisses Zakia Jafri’s plea challenging SIT's clean chit to
Modi, 63 others

    * ![Coronavirus, COVID-19, Coronavirus Cases in India, India Covid Cases, Corona Cases in India, Covid 1](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/corona-test-pti-1656037447.jpg)

Covid-19: At 17,339, India’s daily cases rise by 30%; highest in over 100 days
__

  * World

    * ![UK PM Boris Johnson, Boris Johnson, United Kingdom, london, Conservative Party, southern England, Jo](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Triple blow for UK PM Boris Johnson as Tory chief quits after by-election
defeats

    * ![India ready to provide assistance support to Afghanistan people following devastating earthquake lat](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

India ready to provide assistance, support to Afghanistan people following
devastating earthquake __

    * ![Senate OKs landmark gun violence bill House passage is next, gun violence bill news, gun violence bi](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

United States: Senate OKs landmark 'gun violence bill', House passage is next
__

    * ![COVID19 Over 42 lakh deaths in India prevented by vaccines in 2021 says Lancet study, corona deaths ](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/covid-vaccination-pti-1656035152.jpg)

COVID-19: Over 42 lakh deaths in India prevented by vaccines in 2021 __

    * ![Vladimir Putin, BRICS, BRICS leaders, PM Modi, Xi Jinping, virtual mode of brics, BRICS in virtual m](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/putin-1656008360.jpg)

Putin wants BRICS leaders support over West's 'Selfish Actions'

  * Entertainment

    * Entertainment
    * Videos
    * Gallery
    * Bollywood
    * Celebrities
    * TV
    * Reviews
    * Bhojpuri
    * Gossip
    * Regional
    * Hollywood
    * OTT
    * SBAS

    * ![Sanjay Dutt, Ranbir Kapoor](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Shamshera Trailer OUT: Ranbir Kapoor-Sanjay's intense face-off is spine
chilling in dacoit thriller

    * ![JugJugg Jeeyo ](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

JugJugg Jeeyo Twitter Review & Reaction: Kiara Advani-Varun's film termed as
'full on entertainer'

    * ![Vikram ](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Vikram Box Office Collection: Kamal Haasan's film continues to roar; scores
excellent in South

    * ![Money Heist Korea](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/money-heist-1656053611.jpg)

Money Heist Korea's adaptation is different from original, Park Hae-soo tells
real meaning of mask

    * ![Anjali Bhabhi](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/anjali-1656051298.jpg)

TMKOC: Neha Mehta aka Anjali Bhabhi claims she is yet to receive her dues,
says 'want my money'

  * Sports

    * Sports
    * Live Scores
    * Cricket
    * Football
    * Tennis
    * Other Sports

    * ![Day 3: MP vs Mumbai - Ranji Trophy final](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

LIVE MUM vs MP Live Cricket Score Ranji Trophy Final Day 3 Updates: Dubey hits
a ton; MP 229-1

    * ![England vs New Zealand](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

ENG vs NZ 3rd Test, Day 1: Twitter erupts over bizarre Nicholls dismissal

    * ![KS Bharat in action on day 1 vs Leicestershire](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

India vs Leicestershire Day 1: Top order fails as India finish on 246/8 after
Bharat's unbeaten 70

    * ![FIFA, FIFA 2022, Qatar](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/gettyimages-2789408-1-1656049850.jpg)

In the pandemic-hit world, FIFA approves new rule for 2022 World Cup to be
played in Qatar

    * ![Sarfaraz Khan, Ranji Trophy finals, Mumbai vs MP](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/fv6qzzsvsaawlkj-1656047337.jpg)

Dad held my hand when I could have been down and out: Sublime Sarfaraz
dedicates ton to his father

  * Tech

    * ![BGMI, gaming, battleground Mobile India, tech news, gaming](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

BGMI brings in new characters from The Great British Teddy Bear Company

    * ![Fired, Netflix, Layoff](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Why did Netflix lay-off 300 more employees?

    * ![Android, google, message](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Beware of spyware Hermit, says Google to the high-profile Android users

    * ![Apple iPhone 13 series](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/apple-iphone-1655990255.jpg)

Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max is the best-selling smartphone in the world, but why?

    * ![Uber](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/uber-freepik-uber-1655987258.jpg)

Is Uber planning to exit the Indian market?

  * Photos

    * Photos
    * Entertainment
    * Sports
    * India

    * ![image](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Yoga Day 2022: Anushka Sharma stamps her fitness journey in pics

    * ![Mysore: PM Modi performs yoga to celebrate the 8th](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

International Yoga Day 2022: PM Modi performs yoga at Mysore Palace grounds |
PICS

    * ![International Yoga Day 2022](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

International Yoga Day 2022: How the world is celebrating | In Pics

    * ![bollywood actresses doing yoga](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/befunky-collage-15-1655712870.jpg)

Yoga Day 2022: Kareena Kapoor to Shilpa Shetty, Bollywood divas who swear by
yoga l See pics

    * ![Pragati Maidan tunnel](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/chej-1655605865.jpg)

Pragati Maidan Integrated Transit Corridor project -- Delhi's first 1.6-km-
long tunnel | PICS

  * Health

    * ![monkeypox](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Monkeypox declared a pandemic by WHN: Ways to prevent yourself from viral
infection and treatment

    * ![Monkeypox](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Monkeypox outbreak declared a pandemic by World Health Network; urges WHO to
take immediate action

    * ![Walnuts are your go-to health essentials](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Weight maintenance to healthy heart, know why walnuts are your go-to health
essentials

    * ![Brain](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/brain-1-1655955297.jpg)

Reducing air pollution may improve brain development in children

    * ![image](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/image-2-1655917097.jpg)

Blood test that can detect breast cancer available in India now, know the cost

  * Business

    * ![jet airways, jet airways hiring, jet airways cabin crew](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Jet Airways starts operational hiring, invites former cabin crew to rejoin

    * ![da hike from july 2022, da hike news, da hike news latest hindi](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

DA hike news: Centre likely to raise dearness allowance from THIS date

    * ![Sensex climbs over 600 points, Nifty above 15,700 ](https://static.indiatvnews.com/ins-web/images/lazy.jpg)

Sensex climbs over 600 points, Nifty above 15,700 amid firm global market
trends

    * ![Russian oil now makes up 10 per cent of India's oil import](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/crude-oil-file-photo-1655998007.jpg)

India's Russian oil imports jump 50 times; now accounts for 10% of all import:
Official

    * ![World Bank, indian railway, indian railway logistics infra, Indian Railways, politics, International](https://resize.indiatvnews.com/en/centered/newbucket/105_64/2022/06/world-bank-1655992610.jpg)

World Bank approves $245 million loan to modernise India's railway logistics
infrastructure

  * Trending

  * Astrology

  * Live TV

  * ____

