Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Search
icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, "Click to perform a search".

Insider logo The word "Insider".

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Subscribe  Subscribe

  * Business The word Business
  * Life The word Life
  * News The word News
  * Reviews The word Reviews

  * Business 
    * Tech
    * Finance
    * Markets
    * Strategy
    * Retail
    * Advertising
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
  * Life 
    * Entertainment
    * Culture
    * Travel
    * Food
    * Health
    * Parenting
    * Beauty
    * Style
  * News 
    * Politics
    * Military & Defense
    * Sports
    * Opinion
  * Reviews 
    * Tech
    * Streaming
    * Home
    * Kitchen
    * Style
    * Beauty
    * Gifts
    * Deals
    * Pets
    * Parenting
    * Coupons
    * Health
    * Learning
    * Hobbies & Crafts
    * Travel
  * All 
    * A-Z
    * Advertising
    * Business
    * Careers
    * Coupons
      * DoorDash
      * Walmart
      * Dell
      * Staples
      * Under Armour
    * Culture
    * Design
    * Entertainment
    * Executive Lifestyle
    * Finance
    * Food
    * Health
    * Healthcare
    * Intelligence
    * Latest
    * Life
    * Markets Insider
    * Media
    * Military & Defense
    * News
    * Opinion
    * People
    * Personal Finance
      * Banking
      * Credit Cards
      * Insurance
      * Investing
      * Loans
      * Mortgages
    * Politics
    * Premium
    * Retail
    * Reviews
    * Science
    * Sports
    * Strategy
    * Tech
    * Transportation
    * Travel
    * TV
      * Beauty Explorers
      * Best in Town
      * Bonkers Closets
      * Festival Foodies
      * Movies Insider
      * Pop Culture Decoded
      * The Making Of
      * The Ultimate List
    * Featured
    * Better Capitalism
    * Cities Connected
    * Insider TV
    * Master Your Money
    * Next Stop
    * Sustainable Finance
    * Transforming Business
    * About
    * About
    * Advertise
    * Careers
    * Contact Us
    * Corporate
    * Corrections Policy
    * Follow
    * RSS
    * Sitemap
    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Instagram
    * YouTube
    * LinkedIn
    * Subscriptions
    * Intelligence
    * Premium

US Markets Loading... H M S In the news

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous
/ next navigation options. HOMEPAGE

0

Newsletters

Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often
indicates a user profile.

Log in

Subscribe  Subscribe

Home  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes
previous / next navigation options. Politics

# RESULTS: Mark Ronchetti wins GOP gubernatorial primary in New Mexico

Grace Panetta and  Madison Hall

2022-06-08T01:02:13Z

Save Article Icon A bookmark Facebook Icon The letter F. Email icon An
envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.

Share icon An curved arrow pointing right.

Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. Twitter LinkedIn
icon The word "in". LinkedIn Fliboard icon A stylized letter F. Flipboard Link
icon An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url. Copy Link

Download the app

![2022 New Mexico
Primaries](https://i.insider.com/629e7a007bc6a80018b69a74?width=700)

Insider

New Mexico held primary elections on June 7. Polls closed at 7 p.m. local
time.

## The races and the stakes:

New Mexico held primary elections for gubernatorial and congressional races on
Tuesday.

Republicans selected former television meteorologist Mark Ronchetti to
challenge Democratic Gov. Michelle Luján Grisham, who was elected to the
governorship in 2018 and is now running for a second term.

The leading contenders on election night for the GOP gubernatorial nomination
included Ronchetti, state Rep. Rebecca Dow, and Jay Block, the Sandoval County
Commissioner.

Luján Grisham defeated her Republican opponent, former Rep. Steve Pearce, by
more than 14 points in 2018, and is heavily favored to win another term in the
Democratic-leaning state.

None of New Mexico's three incumbent House members, Democratic Reps. Melanie
Stansbury and Teresa Leger Fernandez and Republican Rep. Yvette Herrell, faced
any primary opposition.

After the 2020 Census, New Mexico Democrats redrew their three congressional
districts to be significantly more favorable turf for Democrats, which could
threaten Herrell.

The new maps kept Stansbury's and Leger Fernandez's districts safely
Democratic but split the heavily blue city of Albuquerque down the middle to
turn New Mexico's 2nd District, represented by Herrell, into a highly
competitive district in the general election.

Herrell, elected in 2020, defeated former Democratic Rep. Xochitl Torres-Small
in the former 2nd District, which previously comprised most of the southern
half of the state.

The 2nd District is now rated as a toss-up seat by election forecasters at the
Cook Political Report, Inside Elections, and Sabato's Crystal Ball at the
University of Virginia Center for Politics.

The two Democrats who fought in the primary to take on Herrell in the general
election were Gabe Vasquez, a former Las Cruces councilmember, and Darshan
Patel, a physician.

## New Mexico state legislative primaries:

![A picture of a switch and lightbulb](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/shared/light-switch.png)

Sign up for notifications from Insider! Stay up to date with what you want to
know.

Subscribe to push notifications

Deal icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

Keep reading

Newsletter

Sign up for our newsletter to receive our top stories based on your reading
preferences — delivered daily to your inbox.

Loading Something is loading.

Email address

By clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as
well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy
Policy.

###  NOW WATCH:

More: New Mexico INSIDER Data DDHQ BI Graphics

  * Rebecca Zisser

Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous
/ next navigation options.

Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an
interaction, or dismiss a notification.

Recommended Video

![Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/Insider-
logo-dark-opt.svg)

![Business Insider](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/US/logos/BI-logo-dark-opt.svg)

Follow us on:

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/facebook.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/twitter.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/linkedin.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/youtube.svg)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0
1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E) ![](/public/assets/BI/US/icons/instagram.svg)

![Download on the App Store](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/app-store-badge.svg)

![Get it on Google Play](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/badges/google-play-badge.svg)

  * * Copyright © 2022 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
  * Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy and  Cookies Policy . 

  * Contact Us
  * Sitemap
  * Disclaimer
  * Accessibility
  * Commerce Policy
  * Advertising Policies
  * CA Privacy Rights
  * Coupons
  * Made in NYC
  * Jobs

  * Stock quotes by finanzen.net
  * Reprints & Permissions

  * International Editions:
  * United States US
  * International INTL
  * Asia AS
  * Deutschland & Österreich AT
  * Deutschland DE
  * España ES
  * India IN
  * Japan JP
  * México MX
  * Netherlands NL
  * Polska PL
  * South Africa ZA

![Insider.com TM Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-com-trademark-opt.svg)

![Insider-Inc Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/INSIDER/US/logos/insider-inc.svg)

![Business Insider DE Logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 1 1'%3E%3C/svg%3E)
![](/public/assets/BI/DE/logos/BI-DE-Black-on-Light-final-footer-logo-opt.svg)

