Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionAndy Burnham at a protest in Liverpool against the P&amp;O Ferries
sackings. Photograph: Anthony Devlin/Getty Images

# Why it’s time for Labour to back proportional representation

Andy Burnham

Our rotten political system must change – inequality has been hard-wired into
our country by first-past-the-post

Sat 25 Jun 2022 12.00 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

For most people, this is turning out to be the most difficult decade we have
lived through.

Outside of the top 10%, almost everyone else has been set back to some degree
by the pandemic and we emerge from it beset by multiple crises likely to last
the next 10 years.

Beneath the cost of living crisis, there is a silent mental health crisis and,
underlying that, a housing crisis that we’ve talked about for a decade but
seen no meaningful action from parliament to tackle it.

That brings us to another crisis – of politics.

Britain is slipping into the danger zone and people are getting worried
because they see no prospect of politics-as-usual pulling us out. Just when we
needed a grown-up government, we got one that is not governing but campaigning
for its own survival by inflaming divides and starting fights.

This is a deeply dysfunctional government and the good news coming out of
Thursday’s byelections is that we now have a route to removing it. That might
be more likely to happen if we also start talking about reforming Britain’s
deeply dysfunctional system of government.

Today’s crises have been building for a long time.

The poorest parts of our country were not ready for the pandemic. Decades of
deregulation, under all governments, stripped them of resilience and left
people without the basics: in jobs where they can’t go home if unwell; in
homes that are unsafe; in communities with no affordable public transport.

This inequality is no accident. It is the product of a political system that
places too much power in the hands of too few. Britain is hard-wired to
perpetuate it.

If our political system was a computer, we would have long since taken steps
to prevent it being hacked

First-past-the-post, combined with the whip system, takes the votes of
millions and turns them into inordinate power for a small Whitehall elite.
Government MPs troop through the lobbies rubber-stamping their decisions. Any
ability to mitigate the worst of them has long since been removed from local
government.

This over-concentration of power in one London postcode makes it far too easy
for vested interests to manipulate political decision-making. What else
explains the extent to which the political elite have been captured by the
mantra that the market solves everything?

In the rare moments when backbench MPs have power, such as in the recent no-
confidence vote, the inner workings of this corrupt system are momentarily
revealed. When Nadine Dorries warned rebel MPs that the Tory donors weren’t
happy and might withdraw cash from their constituencies, she wasn’t setting
out to provide the perfect diagnosis of our political malaise – but that is
what she spectacularly did.

Some of these donors are hostile to the notion of Britain as a fairer, more
equitable country. Others, as the Ukraine crisis revealed, are potentially
hostile to Britain. If our political system was a computer, we would have long
since taken steps to prevent it being hacked.

Britain’s antiquated political system is never going to solve our problems;
rather, it is a root cause of them.

The time has come for a complete rewiring of Britain – and for my own party to
talk openly and seriously with others who feel the same.

Given the seriousness of the country’s situation, the next general election
needs to bring a change of direction. The risk is, if our political parties
carry on with business-as-usual, it may not happen. The Tories are masters at
making first-past-the-post work for them. However, if the other parties are
open to a new approach, Thursday’s results suggest a change of government
becomes not just achievable but highly likely.

The state opening of parliament in the House of Lords. The chamber should be
replaced by an elected senate of the nations and regions. Photograph: Ben
Stansall/PA

To be clear, I am not advocating any form of electoral pact. I think democracy
requires that people in all constituencies have a full choice of political
parties.

What I am proposing is cooperating now on a programme for political reform. At
a grassroots level, Labour is moving towards support for PR. If the party as a
whole were to embrace it, it paves the way for an agreement with other parties
on wider reforms: an elected senate of the nations and regions to replace the
Lords and maximum devolution of power out of Westminster.

We must make power flow differently throughout our land, giving individual
people and places more agency. This idea, and the open discussion about it
ahead of an election, could resonate with voters as a more honest and
collaborative way of doing politics and create real optimism about the
prospects for change. And, in turn, it could lay the right foundations for the
reforming government the country needs.

There is no getting away from the fact that Britain needs social reforms on a
scale similar to those needed after the second world war. My starter for 10
would be: good housing as a human right in UK law and a major council house
building programme to make it real; a higher basic minimum income for all and
the end to insecure employment; social care on NHS terms and a substantial
increase in mental health spending; and the re-nationalisation of rail and re-
regulation of bus services.

Whatever the precise policy programme, the enormity of the change needed can’t
be denied and will require consensus and political foundations to sustain it
for a generation or more.

When I speak out, some always seek to brand it as a leadership bid. This is
nothing of the sort. I am doing this because I want Labour to seize the
moment. We now have the chance to make Keir Starmer our next prime minister
and change the course of the 2020s. Let’s take it.

 _Andy Burnham is the mayor of Greater Manchester_

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Electoral reform

  * Andy Burnham
  * Labour
  * Conservatives
  * First past the post
  * Proportional representation
  * Inequality
  * comment

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

