BBC Homepage

  * Skip to content
  * Accessibility Help

  * Your account

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * More menu

More menu

Search BBC

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

Close menu

BBC News

Menu

  * Home
  * War in Ukraine
  * Coronavirus
  * Climate
  * Video
  * World
  * US & Canada
  * UK
  * Business
  * Tech
  * Science

More

  * Stories
  * Entertainment & Arts
  * Health
  * In Pictures
  * Reality Check
  * World News TV
  * Newsbeat
  * Long Reads

  * World
  * Africa
  * Asia
  * Australia
  * Europe
  * Latin America
  * Middle East

# Mariupol: Azovstal defenders' bodies arrive in Kyiv - families

Published

    8 June

Share

close

Share page

Copy link

About sharing

Related Topics

  * Russia-Ukraine war

![Destroyed facilities at Mariupol's Azovstal steelworks. Photo: May
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/F4B1/production/_125314626_24970096-22f9-42e0-8a89-28cfd1f683f0.jpg)Image
source, Reuters

Image caption,

Azovstal - the vast industrial site with a maze of underground tunnels - was
pummelled by Russia for weeks

 **The bodies of some Ukrainian fighters killed defending the key south-
eastern port of Mariupol have arrived in Kyiv, according to the soldiers'
families.**

They say this was part of a swap with Russia, with each side receiving 160
bodies. Moscow has not commented.

The fighters spent weeks holed up in the city's Azovstal steelworks. In May,
the survivors were taken prisoner.

More than 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers captured in Mariupol have reportedly been
transferred to Russia.

The soldiers, who were being held in locations controlled by Russian-backed
forces in eastern Ukraine, were moved to Russia for investigation, a Russian
law enforcement source told Itar-Tass, a state-owned Russian news agency.

The same source said more prisoner transfers would follow.

There has been no confirmation from the Ukrainian side, but previously
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky said he thought more than 2,500
Azovstal defenders - who also include border guards, police and territorial
defence - were being held by Russia.

Kyiv says Mariupol's last defenders were given orders to save their lives
after successfully completing their main goal of holding up Russian troops and
not allowing them to be redeployed to other key battlefields.

Moscow says the Ukrainian defenders were forced to surrender.

![Russian military vehicles escort buses with Ukrainian fighters from
Mariupol. Photo: May
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/6220/production/_124802152_df099701-1cdc-4c77-bd62-719ab0114e16.jpg)Image
source, EPA

Image caption,

Ukrainian fighters were taken by bus from Azovstal to areas controlled by
Russian-backed forces in eastern Ukraine

Mariupol was captured by Russia in May after a months-long siege and heavy
shelling that virtually wiped out the city. Ukrainian officials estimate that
tens of thousands of people, including children, may have been killed.

They have also been warning of a possible outbreak of cholera in the city,
where many bodies are still believed to be buried under the rubble, and sewage
has reportedly contaminated main water supply chains.

After Mariupol, Russian forces turned their attention to Severodonetsk - and
the twin city of Lysychansk. Seizing them would give the Russians control of
the Luhansk region - which, alongside Donetsk, makes up the wider Donbas,
stated target of Russian operations.

## Fate of fighters unknown

In a post on Telegram late on Monday, the Ukrainian fighters' families said
"the bodies of the killed Azovstal defenders" had arrived in the capital Kyiv.

They said that one-third of those were fighters from the Azov regiment, and
that the identification process was continuing and could take up to three
months.

Russia has not officially confirmed the exchange of bodies.

  * What next for Ukraine's captured Azovstal fighters?

However, Russian war correspondent Irina Kuksenkova on Friday reported that
the exchange did take place on the line of contact between Ukrainian and
Russian forces in the southern Zaporizhzhia region. She said each side
received 160 bodies.

President Zelensky has said Ukraine's intelligence officials were working on a
plan to secure the release of the surviving fighters, without giving any
further details.

Kyiv wants them all handed over, but several leading Russian lawmakers are
demanding that some of the soldiers - specifically from the Azov regiment -
should be put on trial.

The regiment was set up in 2014, with some of its members initially linked to
far-right groups. Kyiv says the unit has since been reformed and is now
outside politics.

President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly stated that his "special military
operation" launched on 24 February was to de-Nazify and de-militarise Ukraine.
He provided no evidence to back his claims, but officials have often mentioned
the Azov Regiment.

In Ukraine, however, many people regard Azov soldiers as national heroes
fighting what they say is in fact the neo-Nazi regime of President Putin.

This video can not be played

## To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.

Media caption,

Ros Atkins on... Putin’s false Nazi claims about Ukraine

![line](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/624/cpsprodpb/1FCD/production/_105914180_line976-nc.png)

## War in Ukraine: More coverage

  * WHAT NEXT?: Five ways Russia’s war in Ukraine may play out
  * WEAPONS: UK to send first long-range missiles to Ukraine
  * FRONT LINE: The Russian soldiers refusing to fight in Ukraine
  * READ MORE: Full coverage of the crisis

![line](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/624/cpsprodpb/1FCD/production/_105914180_line976-nc.png)

## More on this story

  * What next for Ukraine's captured Azovstal fighters?

    18 May

![A protester holds a sign reading Save
Azovstal](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/FCA7/production/_124797646_azovstal.jpg)

  * UK to send first long-range missiles to Ukraine

    6 June

![The British army"s M270 Multiple Launch Rocket System \(MLRS\) fires during
Summer Shield 2022 military exercise in Adazi military base,
Latvia](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/662E/production/_125285162_hi076328734.jpg)

  * Russian general killed in Donbas fighting - reports

    6 June

![A Russian troops
carrier](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/D97E/production/_125287655_hi076131014.jpg)

  * Putin warns Ukraine over Western long-range weapons

    6 June

![A Ukrainian service member is pictured at a position on the front
line](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/10CE6/production/_125283886_resized_hi076536691.jpg)

  * Russia declares victory at Mariupol steelworks

    20 May

![Image shows captured Azovstal
fighter](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/140AD/production/_124839028_hi076132550.jpg)

  * Mariupol: 'We have wounded and dead inside the bunkers'

    21 April

![Azov deputy commander Svyatoslav Palamar. Photo: 21 April
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/12CE0/production/_124242077_mariupol_palamar.png)

## Related Topics

  * Russia-Ukraine war
  * Kyiv
  * Russia
  * Ukraine

## Top Stories

  * Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

Published

    1 hour ago

  * What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

Published

    4 hours ago

  * Chaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest. VideoChaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest

Published

    6 hours ago

## Features

  * Helping families locate the missing in Ukraine war

![Ukrainian servicemen leave the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Ukraine, 20
May
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/E416/production/_125609385_hi076160151.jpg)

  * Pots, trays, tubs - consumers confront their plastic footprint

![Jules Birkby's daughter was shocked by how much plastic they used in a
week](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/15EB5/production/_125618798_theplasticcount-
emmyisshocked.jpg)

  * G7 face battle for unity as cost of war mounts

![unexploded bomb in
kharkiv](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/8C8D/production/_125618953_mediaitem125618951.jpg)

  * The priceless Nigerian sculpture stuck with UK police

![The stolen Ife
bronze](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/C25B/production/_125555794_bp2_976_2.png)

  * Inside Ukraine's International Legion. VideoInside Ukraine's International Legion

![Ukrainian International Legion
Soldiers](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/27CF/production/_125619101_p0ch58xk.jpg)

  * The Indians choosing not to have children. VideoThe Indians choosing not to have children

![A growing number of Indian are deciding to never become parents. The BBC
spoke to a few to find out
why](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/14B34/production/_125588748_p0cgnfnd.jpg)

  * How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

![Sullivan
family](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/113F7/production/_125574607_sullivans.jpg)

  * Four things we've learned from Jan 6 hearings

![Liz Cheney speaks during the fifth hearing by the House Select Committee to
investigation the 6 January attack on the US
Capitol](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/A9EB/production/_125599434_d20ed912-f529-4d06-b300-87ebc8a3dc05.jpg)

  * The surprising reason more Americans are turning to psychedelic drugs

![Brain surrounded by psychedelic
colours](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/11E4A/production/_125609237_screenshot2022-06-24at15.45.08.png)

## Elsewhere on the BBC

  * Why top chefs are leaving Paris

"It started before Covid, but it was discreet"

![Berry Tart and food](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/47E7/production/_125570481_parischefsleaving.jpg)

  * The films bringing sex work to life

Has cinema perpetuated damaging stereotypes?

![people on bed](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/15957/production/_125570488_sexworkfilms.jpg)

  * Has human progress peaked?

A growing and influential intellectual movement aims to understand why human
progress happens – and how to speed it up

![night photographer](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/D4EB/production/_125570545_humanprogresspeaked.jpg)

## Most Read

  1. 1Prince Charles 'accepted a suitcase with 1m euros'

  2. 2Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

  3. 3What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

  4. 4South African police investigate nightclub deaths

  5. 5US firms pledge to pay abortion travel expenses

  6. 6G7 leaders meet amid political pressures at home

  7. 7U2 singer Bono discovered he has a half-brother

  8. 8How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

  9. 9The world reacts to US abortion ruling

  10. 10Russia on brink of default as debt deadline looms

## BBC News Services

  * On your mobile
  * On smart speakers
  * Get news alerts
  * Contact BBC News

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

  * Terms of Use
  * About the BBC
  * Privacy Policy
  * Cookies
  * Accessibility Help
  * Parental Guidance
  * Contact the BBC
  * Get Personalised Newsletters
  * Why you can trust the BBC
  * Advertise with us
  * AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info

© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read
about our approach to external linking.

![](https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/p?c1=2&c2=17986528&cs_ucfr=0&cv=2.0&cj=1)

