Subscribe

The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian: news website of the year

  * News
  * Opinion
  * Sport
  * Culture
  * Lifestyle

Show captionDominic Cummings managed to find room to criticise his old boss at
No 10 during panel discussion entitled Bismarck and Political Power in London
on Thursday evening. Photograph: Tolga Akmen/AFP/Getty Images

Dominic Cummings

# Dominic Cummings attempts career reboot as political speaker

Ex-adviser to Boris Johnson holds forth about his hero Otto von Bismarck at
Orwell Festival of Political Writing

Caroline Davies

Thu 23 Jun 2022 17.23 EDT

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email

More than a year since walking out of Downing Street clutching his possessions
in a cardboard box, Dominic Cummings has emerged in public again, recasting
himself as a political speaker,

From No 10 to a lecture hall in the Darwin Building at University College
London, the man who was once Boris Johnson’s senior adviser and de facto chief
of staff, appeared on Thursday night in a panel discussion at the Orwell
festival of political writing.

The subject, Bismarck and Political Power, is one with which he has quite a
fascination. Indeed, the erstwhile political adviser turned creator of long
Twitter threads and blog posts, told an audience of about 100 that today’s
politicians could learn much from the Iron Chancellor.

“I think that studying Bismarck can help us improve the selection of people
who go into politics who have crucial roles,” he said.

Readers of his blog will be familiar with Cummings’ fascination with Otto von
Bismarck, who rose rapidly in Prussian politics and masterminded the
unification of Germany in 1871, serving as its first chancellor until 1890.

Introduced by the panel chair as “that rare thing a political strategist of
the first rank who became a political actor of the first rank”, Cummings spoke
about Bismarck’s genius and political insight. Unable to resist mentioning his
former boss, he told the audience that one of Bismarck’s strengths was he knew
how to prioritise. “Now it’s absolutely normal in politics for those at the
apex of power to be quite clueless about their priorities. Back in 2020 often
several times a day Boris Johnson would trolley between, ‘we’ve got to save
lives, we’ve got to save the economy’. Not week to week, not even day to day,
sometimes several times in one meeting,” he said.

The panel discussion was part of the inaugural Orwell Festival of Political
Writing 2022.

It marks a new role as public speaker for Cummings, who, post Downing Street,
has sought to promote himself as a political commentator, Johnson critic in
chief, and whistleblower extraordinaire, happy to supply context and gossip on
everything from “wallpapergate” to Carrie Johnson, to ethics in general.

How Cummings and Carrie Symonds vie for Johnson’s attention

His fellow panellist, Anglo-German historian Katja Hoyer has previously
discussed Cummings’ admiration for Bismarck.

Writing in the Spectator last year she said: “It is clear that Cummings seeks
inspiration from the Iron Chancellor for his own political doings,” pointing
out he quotes him extensively in his articles. She argued that Cummings’ fall
from grace followed “a rather similar trajectory to the Bismarckian one”.

“Both were once deemed indispensable fonts of political wisdom. Both drew the
ire of powerful enemies. Both left office as embittered men with giant
political axes to grind,” she wrote.

She also wrote that Bismarck like Cummings ran into conflict “with the first
lady at court” and that both men deemed themselves indispensable and “watched
their own fall with astonishment and incredulity”.

Also speaking at the ticketed event was Sir Richard Evans, professor emeritus
of history at Cambridge University and Gideon Rachman, chief foreign affairs
commentator of the FT.

The festival, the first of its kind, opened on Wednesday and will feature
“some of the most powerful thinkers and newsmakers of recent times”,
organisers said.

The festival culminates on 14 July in the announcement of the winners of this
year’s Orwell prizes.

Prof Jean Seaton, director of the Orwell Foundation, said: “This first Orwell
festival of political writing is an exciting new stage in the growth of the
Orwell Foundation. The festival concentrates attention on the work of all of
the finalists that our journalism and book prize judges have most valued. But
it begins to open up tough discussions about things that matter with
audiences.”

{{#ticker}}

{{topLeft}}

{{bottomLeft}}

{{topRight}}

{{bottomRight}}

{{#goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/goalExceededMarkerPercentage}}

{{/ticker}}

## {{heading}}

{{#paragraphs}}

{{.}}

{{/paragraphs}}{{highlightedText}}  
{{#choiceCards}}

  

SingleMonthlyAnnual

  

Other

{{/choiceCards}}

{{#cta}}{{text}}{{/cta}}

Email address

Please enter a valid email address

Please enter your email address

Set a reminder

Sorry we couldn't set a reminder for you this time. Please try again later.

We will send you a maximum of two emails in . To find out what personal data
we collect and how we use it, view our Privacy Policy.

We will be in touch to remind you to contribute. Look out for a message in
your inbox in . If you have any questions about contributing, please contact
us.

Topics

  * Dominic Cummings

  * Boris Johnson
  * Awards and prizes
  * Carrie Johnson
  * news

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share via Email
  * Share on LinkedIn
  * Share on WhatsApp
  * Share on Messenger

View on theguardian.com

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

{{#showContent}}

{{displayName}}

{{#description}}

{{description}}

{{/description}}{{#content}}{{#headline}}

##
{{#isVideo}}{{/isVideo}}{{#isGallery}}{{/isGallery}}{{#isAudio}}{{/isAudio}}{{#isComment}}{{/isComment}}{{headline}}

{{#isComment}}

{{byline}}

{{/isComment}}

{{#showWebPublicationDate}} {{webPublicationDate}}{{/showWebPublicationDate}}

{{headline}}

{{/headline}}{{/content}}

{{/showContent}}

Show more

  * About us
  * Contact us
  * Complaints and corrections
  * Securedrop
  * Work for us
  * Privacy settings
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookie policy
  * Terms & conditions
  * Help

  * All topics
  * All writers
  * Modern Slavery Act
  * Digital newspaper archive
  * Facebook
  * Twitter

  * Advertise with us
  * Search jobs
  * Patrons
  * Discount Codes

Support The Guardian

Contribute

Subscribe

Back to top __

© 2022 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights
reserved.

{{ #topLevelSections }}

  * ##  __{{ title }}

{{ #subSections }}

    * {{ title }} 
{{ /subSections }}

{{ /topLevelSections }}

{{ #readerRevenueLinks }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /readerRevenueLinks }}

  * Sign in / Register 

##  __Switch edition

{{ #editions }}

  * {{ displayName }} 
{{ /editions }}

{{ #secondarySections }}

  * {{ title }} 
{{ /secondarySections }}

