Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

May 31, 20221:59 PM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Americas

# Colombia's 'king of TikTok' Hernandez ready for run-off after shock result

By Oliver Griffin

  *   *   *   *   * 

3 minute read

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

BOGOTA, May 30 (Reuters) - Business magnate and self-styled "king of TikTok"
Rodolfo Hernandez, who shocked Colombia by getting into a June 19 presidential
run-off against leftist Gustavo Petro, is betting his plain anti-corruption
message will take him to the top job.

Hernandez, a septuagenarian former mayor of the northern city Bucaramanga, won
28.2% of votes in a first election round on Sunday, beating establishment
favorite Federico Gutierrez for second place in a surprise result.

Petro, long forecast to win the first round, won 40.3%.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Surveys ahead of the first round showed Hernandez - who now has the support of
Gutierrez and likely many of his supporters - would lag just a few points
behind Petro in a run-off vote.

"We have achieved a historic result, a result that has shaken the foundations
of the corrupt power of all recent governments," Hernandez wrote in a message
posted on Facebook on Sunday evening.

Despite employing fiery rhetoric to rail against the corruption of the
political class, Hernandez faces an investigation by the attorney general's
office for allegedly intervening in a trash collection tender while mayor to
benefit a company his son had lobbied for.

Hernandez denies the accusations and insists they are designed to derail his
presidency bid.

That accusation is not his only scandal.

He resigned as mayor after he got in hot water with the procurator general for
participating in politics - prohibited for Colombian officials after election
- and was also suspended for slapping a city councillor and calling him a "son
of a bitch."

![A wall with the image of Colombian candidate Rodolfo Hernandez is pictured
in Bogota](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/73HUPW6BBJNYTIDUCS5MEXEKT4.jpg)

![Colombian centre-right presidential candidate Rodolfo Hernandez of Anti-
Corruption Rulers' League Party greets his supporters after his arrival at
Palonegro International Airport in Bucaramanga](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/TFLVVJFMQNNRFCRF3YSMUILPDQ.jpg)

![A wall with the image of Colombian candidate Rodolfo Hernandez is pictured
in Bogota](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/73HUPW6BBJNYTIDUCS5MEXEKT4.jpg)

1/2

Colombian centre-right presidential candidate Rodolfo Hernandez of Anti-
Corruption Rulers' League Party, greets his supporters after his arrival at
Palonegro International Airport in Bucaramanga, Colombia May 21, 2022.
REUTERS/Stringer/File Photo

Read More

He also once told local radio he admired Nazi leader Adolf Hitler, later
calling the comment a "lapse".

## KING OF TIKTOK

Hernandez has relied heavily on social media, posting eccentric videos on
TikTok, including one of him riding an electric scooter.

A video shared on election day showed a relaxed swimsuit-clad Hernandez
spending time with his family and receiving a painting made by his young
granddaughter.

The whimsical content belies his personal knowledge of the suffering caused by
Colombia's nearly 60 years of war.

Hernandez's farmer father was held for months by the FARC guerrillas decades
ago, while his daughter, Juliana, was kidnapped by the National Liberation
Army (ELN) rebels in 2004.

He believes she was murdered in captivity, but has said he would explore peace
talks with the ELN if elected and continue to implement a 2016 deal with the
FARC.

Hernandez has also pledged to strengthen law and order and create jobs,
although he has shared scant details of those plans.

"His top policy priorities are two. One is anti-corruption ... the other is
poverty, inequality and specifically hunger," Will Freeman, a doctoral
candidate in politics at Princeton University who studies anti-corruption
efforts told Reuters, noting both Hernandez and Petro have decried the need
for food imports.

Hernandez, a civil engineer, says he amassed a fortune of $100 million via his
construction company and has vowed to donate his presidential salary if
victorious in June.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Oliver Griffin Additional reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb; Editing
by Bradley Perrett

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Americas

  * Colombia president-elect Petro names peace envoy as foreign minister, article with imageAmericas · June 25, 2022

Colombia's leftist president-elect Gustavo Petro named long-time politician
and peace envoy Alvaro Leyva as the first member of his future cabinet on
Saturday, ahead of Petro's August inauguration.

  * Video

AmericasAfter two-year hiatus, Mexico City conducts mass ceremony for same-sex
couples, article with video4:33 AM UTC

  * AmericasIMF board concludes reviews for Ecuador, unlocking $1 billion, article with imageJune 25, 2022

  * Gallery

AmericasVenezuelan migrants in southern Mexico form U.S.-bound caravan,
article with galleryJune 24, 2022

  * Gallery

AmericasCuba zookeepers celebrate birth of rare baby white rhino, article with
galleryJune 25, 2022

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

