### CNN values your feedback

1\. How relevant is this ad to you?

2\. Did you encounter any technical issues?

Video player was slow to load content  Video content never loaded  Ad froze or
did not finish loading  Video content did not start after ad  Audio on ad was
too loud  Other issues

Ad never loaded  Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading  Content moved
around while ad loaded  Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously  Other
issues

Cancel  Submit

Thank You!

Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated.

Close

Ad Feedback

Close icon

Politics

The Biden Presidency

Facts First

US Elections

More

The Biden Presidency  Facts First  US Elections

Audio  Live TV

Log In

My Account

  * Settings 
  * Log Out 

Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

Search

Log In

My Account

  * Settings 
  * Log Out 

Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

* * *

Live TV  Audio

* * *

Edition

US

International

Arabic

Español

Edition

  * US 
  * International 
  * Arabic 
  * Español 

* * *

The Biden Presidency

Facts First

US Elections

Follow CNN Politics

  *   *   * 

* * *

  * World 
    * Africa 
    * Americas 
    * Asia 
    * Australia 
    * China 
    * Europe 
    * India 
    * Middle East 
    * United Kingdom 
  * US Politics 
    * The Biden Presidency 
    * Facts First 
    * US Elections 
  * Business 
    * Markets 
    * Tech 
    * Media 
    * Success 
    * Perspectives 
    * Videos 
  * Health 
    * Life, But Better 
    * Fitness 
    * Food 
    * Sleep 
    * Mindfulness 
    * Relationships 
  * Entertainment 
    * Stars 
    * Screen 
    * Binge 
    * Culture 
    * Media 
  * Tech 
    * Innovate 
    * Gadget 
    * Foreseeable Future 
    * Mission: Ahead 
    * Upstarts 
    * Work Transformed 
    * Innovative Cities 
  * Style 
    * Arts 
    * Design 
    * Fashion 
    * Architecture 
    * Luxury 
    * Beauty 
    * Video 
  * Travel 
    * Destinations 
    * Food & Drink 
    * Stay 
    * News 
    * Videos 
  * Sports 
    * Football 
    * Tennis 
    * Golf 
    * Olympics 
    * US Sports 
    * Climbing 
    * Motorsport 
    * Formula E 
    * Esports 
    * Hockey 
  * Videos 
    * Live TV 
    * Digital Studios 
    * CNN Films 
    * HLN 
    * TV Schedule 
    * TV Shows A-Z 
    * CNNVR 
  * Features 
    * As Equals 
    * Call to Earth 
    * Freedom Project 
    * Impact Your World 
    * Inside Africa 
    * 2 Degrees 
    * CNN Heroes 
    * All Features 
  * Weather 
    * Climate 
    * Storm Tracker 
    * Wildfire Tracker 
    * Video 
  * More 
    * Photos 
    * Longform 
    * Investigations 
    * CNN Profiles 
    * CNN Leadership 
    * CNN Newsletters 
    * Work for CNN 

#  Trump’s obsession with 2020 weighs on his political power – and his
political future

By Gabby Orr, CNN

Updated 12:53 PM EDT, Thu May 26, 2022

Ad Feedback

![Former President Donald Trump speaks during the American Freedom Tour at the
Austin Convention Center on May 14, 2022 in Austin, Texas.
](https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/220526111020-donald-trump-
austin-0514.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_270,w_480,c_fill)

Former President Donald Trump speaks during the American Freedom Tour at the
Austin Convention Center on May 14, 2022 in Austin, Texas.

Brandon Bell/Getty Images

CNN —

Fixated on relitigating the 2020 presidential election, former President
Donald Trump has often argued since leaving office that Republicans cannot
have a successful future – either at the ballot box or legislatively – if they
turn a blind eye to the past.

But this week, primary voters in Georgia appeared to firmly reject that
approach. Voting overwhelmingly for two key Republicans – Gov. Brian Kemp and
Secretary of State Brad Raffensberger – who have flatly dismissed Trump’s
false claims about election fraud, Republicans in the Peach State sent a clear
signal to the former President that his continued obsession with 2020 is not
only bad for his preferred candidates but could be a liability for him in key
battleground states as he considers another presidential bid in 2024.

“Georgia was a valuable lesson. Trump has found that he’s altered the rules of
politics, but not all the rules of politics,” said Bryan Lanza, a former Trump
aide who remains close to the ex-President.

![](https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/220524215817-02-brian-
kemp-052422.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_144,w_256,c_fill)

Joe Raedle/Getty Images

6 takeaways from primaries in Georgia, Alabama, Arkansas and Texas

Whether Trump internalizes any critical lessons at this juncture remains to be
seen, however. Although he is far less likely “to stick his neck out” with
endorsements in upcoming primaries following a string of defeats and the
still-uncertain outcome of Pennsylvania’s Senate GOP primary, said one former
Trump aide, he has shown no indication that he intends to recalibrate his
approach amid Tuesday’s setbacks – even as those around him admit that a
course correction might be necessary if he wants to stand a chance in a future
presidential contest.

“A very big and successful evening of political Endorsements,” Trump wrote on
his Truth Social website Wednesday, hours after Kemp and Raffensberger soundly
defeated their Trump-backed challengers, former Sen. David Perdue and Rep.
Jody Hice.

“It was a bad night for revenge and Georgia was his ultimate revenge stop,”
said one Trump adviser.

The adviser also noted that Trump “made a strategic mistake abandoning Mo
Brooks,” the Alabama Senate GOP candidate who advanced to a runoff contest on
Tuesday despite losing the former President’s endorsement just two months
prior over his repeated calls for Republican voters to move beyond the 2020
election.

Multiple Trump allies and advisers who spoke with CNN on the condition of
anonymity said the defeats the former President has suffered this month – in
Georgia, Idaho, Nebraska and North Carolina – would typically force anyone to
reevaluate their strategy, but that Trump is notoriously resistant to
acknowledging weakness or error.

He will “just plow forward like he always does,” said one former Trump
campaign official.

![Gov. Brian Kemp speaks during an election-night watch party after winning
renomination to be the Republican candidate for Governor Tuesday, May 24,
2022, in Atlanta. \(AP Photo/John
Bazemore\)](https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/220525214211-brian-
kemp-election-night-victory-220524.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_144,w_256,c_fill)

Gov. Brian Kemp speaks during an election-night watch party after winning
renomination to be the Republican candidate for Governor Tuesday, May 24,
2022, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/John Bazemore)

John Bazemore/AP

How Brian Kemp wrote the GOP playbook for subduing Trump's election fury

Another former top campaign aide to Trump said Georgia should teach the former
President that he can’t deploy a one-size-fits-all approach to every
Republican primary, especially when he is going up against popular incumbents.
A Fox News poll released just days before Tuesday’s primary showed Kemp with a
net-positive approval rating of 46 percent among Republican primary voters in
the state.

“Going after an incumbent in a southern state like Georgia is fraught with
danger. Local politics matter and dominate,” the aide said.

“Some states are so insular politically,” this person added, “that voters take
exception to anyone trying to come into their state and tell them what to do.”

Meanwhile, the former head of Trump’s 2016 Georgia campaign operation had some
choice words for MAGA candidates who centered their campaigns around the
former President instead of local and statewide issues.

“So come to find out, running an issueless campaign… isn’t a winning
strategy,” tweeted Seth Weathers, a Georgia Republican strategist who oversaw
Trump’s field effort in Georgia during his first presidential run.

![](https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/220519100111-donald-
trump-file-051422.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_144,w_256,c_fill)

Brandon Bell/Getty Images

Analysis: Donald Trump had a rough night in Georgia

Weathers also criticized Hice, Trump’s pick in the secretary of state race.
While Hice followed the former President’s lead, Raffensberger described
Trump’s claims about fraudulent election activities in Georgia as “just plain
wrong” in the immediate aftermath of the 2020 election and held to it in the
year and a half since. His office has also cooperated with a special grand
jury that is investigating Trump’s efforts to overturn the election results in
Georgia.

Raffensperger won the primary handily.

“[Hice] seemed to take the same bad strategy, just not as bad as Perdue,”
Weathers said, adding that Raffensberger “also ran nonstop ads trashing [Hice]
and I didn’t see him respond in kind.”

Trump, who boasted about “record turnout” in Georgia ahead of the primary on
Tuesday, has not yet commented on the collapse of his preferred statewide
candidates. In addition to Hice and Perdue, Trump-backed challengers to
Insurance Commissioner John King and Attorney General Chris Carr failed to
oust their opponents.

##  Looking ahead to a potential run

Despite Trump’s continuous peddling of lies about the past election and his
resistance to a midterm message that is less backwards-looking, there is one
notable area where he has been eager to talk about the future.

Over the past few weeks, the former President has been chatting up friends and
advisers about the looming 2024 presidential contest, including taking their
temperature on an earlier-than-expected campaign announcement.

Trump has repeatedly told his supporters – from the throngs of MAGA devotees
who have shown up at his midterm rallies to top allies in conservative media –
that they will be very happy with his ultimate decision on 2024. And aides to
the former President, who would be 76 years old during a third presidential
campaign, tend to universally agree that he will run again barring any major
changes to his health.

![](https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/220525164754-elise-
stefanik-0525-restricted.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_144,w_256,c_fill)

Bill Clark/CQ-Roll Call, Inc/Getty Images

Moderate-turned-MAGA Rep. Elise Stefanik's stock is rising in Trump world

While many of those same aides were under the impression that Trump would wait
until after the November midterms to reveal his next move, he has recently
solicited their thoughts on entering the fray sooner. One Trump adviser, who
noted that former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush announced he would “actively explore”
a presidential bid just one month after the 2014 midterms, said Trump has been
thinking about launching an exploratory committee in October – just before
this year’s midterm contest.

“In the last month, people have been telling him it may be smart to announce
in October because we will be pretty certain by then whether Republicans are
going to take over both chambers and he will become more of a topic related to
the midterms and how he helped make that happen,” the adviser said.

This person said Trump already plans to be on the campaign trail frequently
later this summer “and it wouldn’t be difficult to add a campaign rollout to
all of that.”

“He’s always been an impatient person and he wants to start his political
operation sooner,” the adviser added.

A second Trump adviser, who said the odds of Trump launching an exploratory
committee prior to the November 8 midterm elections were “50/50,” claimed the
former President remains in the early stages of determining the best timing
for such an announcement. Trump has been closely tracking President Joe
Biden’s poll numbers as he looks for any openings with independents and
suburban voters who fled the GOP in 2020.

“If he thinks it will help him, he will do it before November. If he concludes
it’s better for him to wait, he’ll wait,” the adviser said.

But there may be a second reason for Trump’s impatience.

![DELAWARE, OH - APRIL 23: Former U.S. President Donald Trump gestures after
speaking during a rally hosted by the former president at the Delaware County
Fairgrounds on April 23, 2022 in Delaware, Ohio. Last week, Trump announced
his endorsement of J.D. Vance in the Ohio Republican Senate primary. \(Photo
by Drew Angerer/Getty
Images\)](https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/220512175409-trump-
rally-april-23.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_144,w_256,c_fill)

DELAWARE, OH - APRIL 23: Former U.S. President Donald Trump gestures after
speaking during a rally hosted by the former president at the Delaware County
Fairgrounds on April 23, 2022 in Delaware, Ohio. Last week, Trump announced
his endorsement of J.D. Vance in the Ohio Republican Senate primary. (Photo by
Drew Angerer/Getty Images)

Drew Angerer/Getty Images/FILE

Trump struggles to keep control of his own MAGA movement

As his once sterling endorsement record has unraveled this month, Trump has
grown increasingly aware of the other GOP power players who are eyeing the
party’s presidential nomination in two years. In addition to Kemp and
Raffensberger defeating their Trump-endorsed opponents on Tuesday, Trump’s
picks in gubernatorial primaries in Nebraska and Idaho earlier this month also
lost, and he was dealt another unexpected blow when Rep. Madison Cawthorn, who
Trump had publicly vouched for as the freshman congressman battled numerous
scandals, lost his primary to North Carolina state Sen. Chuck Edwards.

In the midst of these defeats, the former President has been paying close
attention to Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, whose popularity has soared among
Trump’s own base amid his recent clashes with the progressive left.

Trump has also kept watch on his one-time vice president, Mike Pence, who
actively campaigned for Kemp in the closing days of the Georgia gubernatorial
primary, and his former secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, who endorsed David
McCormick in the Pennsylvania Senate primary, which is heading to a recount as
McCormick remains deadlocked against his Trump-endorsed opponent, Dr. Mehmet
Oz.

“Having read ‘The Art of War,’ one of the rules there is that the greatest
victory is defeating your opponents without having to have a fight. Trump is
well aware of that passage,” one of the Trump advisers said.

Ad Feedback

Ad Feedback

Ad Feedback

Search

Log In

My Account

  * Settings 
  * Log Out 

Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

* * *

Live TV  Audio

* * *

  * World 
    * Africa 
    * Americas 
    * Asia 
    * Australia 
    * China 
    * Europe 
    * India 
    * Middle East 
    * United Kingdom 
  * US Politics 
    * The Biden Presidency 
    * Facts First 
    * US Elections 
  * Business 
    * Markets 
    * Tech 
    * Media 
    * Success 
    * Perspectives 
    * Videos 
  * Health 
    * Life, But Better 
    * Fitness 
    * Food 
    * Sleep 
    * Mindfulness 
    * Relationships 
  * Entertainment 
    * Stars 
    * Screen 
    * Binge 
    * Culture 
    * Media 
  * Tech 
    * Innovate 
    * Gadget 
    * Foreseeable Future 
    * Mission: Ahead 
    * Upstarts 
    * Work Transformed 
    * Innovative Cities 
  * Style 
    * Arts 
    * Design 
    * Fashion 
    * Architecture 
    * Luxury 
    * Beauty 
    * Video 
  * Travel 
    * Destinations 
    * Food & Drink 
    * Stay 
    * News 
    * Videos 
  * Sports 
    * Football 
    * Tennis 
    * Golf 
    * Olympics 
    * US Sports 
    * Climbing 
    * Motorsport 
    * Formula E 
    * Esports 
    * Hockey 
  * Videos 
    * Live TV 
    * Digital Studios 
    * CNN Films 
    * HLN 
    * TV Schedule 
    * TV Shows A-Z 
    * CNNVR 
  * Features 
    * As Equals 
    * Call to Earth 
    * Freedom Project 
    * Impact Your World 
    * Inside Africa 
    * 2 Degrees 
    * CNN Heroes 
    * All Features 
  * Weather 
    * Climate 
    * Storm Tracker 
    * Wildfire Tracker 
    * Video 
  * More 
    * Photos 
    * Longform 
    * Investigations 
    * CNN Profiles 
    * CNN Leadership 
    * CNN Newsletters 
    * Work for CNN 

* * *

Politics

Audio  Live TV

Follow CNN Politics

  *   *   *   * 

Log In

My Account

  * Settings 
  * Log Out 

Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

* * *

Terms of Use  Privacy Policy  Ad Choices  Accessibility & CC  About
Newsletters  Transcripts

© 2021 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights
Reserved.  
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

