Skip to main content

Skip to floating mini video

  * World

  * Business

  * Legal

  * Markets

  * Breakingviews
  * Technology

  * Investigations
  * More

My View

Register

June 20, 20226:17 PM UTCLast Updated ago

  * Europe

# Putin fears "spark of democracy", Germany's Scholz says

Reuters

  *   *   *   *   * 

2 minute read

![French President Macron, German Chancellor Scholz, Italian PM Draghi and
Romanian President Iohannis visit Kyiv](https://cloudfront-us-
east-2.images.arcpublishing.com/reuters/OZDFZSJF5JPGNFEVNSE7K6ZTG4.jpg)

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz attends a joint news conference, as Russia's
attack on Ukraine continues, in Kyiv, Ukraine June 16, 2022. REUTERS/Valentyn
Ogirenko

###### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

BERLIN, June 20 (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin fears the "spark
of democracy" spreading to his country, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said,
adding that he was trying to divide Europe and return to a world dominated by
spheres of influence.

Scholz was responding to a question in an interview with the Muenchner Merkur
newspaper, published on the government website on Monday, on whether Putin
would accept Ukraine moving closer to the European Union.

"The Russian President must accept that there is a community of law-based
democracies in his neighbourhood that is growing ever closer together," he
said. "He clearly fears the spark of democracy spreading to his country."

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

The Russian Foreign Ministry's spokesperson Maria Zakharova rejected the
comments, writing on social media: "German sparks have spread onto us a couple
of times. We will not allow any more fires."

The European Commission last week recommended that Ukraine, which has been
battling a Russian invasion since February, be given the status of candidate
to join the European Union, a move Scholz said he also backed.

Scholz warned that soaring energy prices would likely be around for a long
time, and rejected Russia's assertion that it had cut gas flows because
necessary spare parts were missing due to sanctions.

"This explanation is not plausible," he said.

##### Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com

Register

Reporting by Thomas Escritt; Editing by Sarah Marsh and Philippa Fletcher

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

## Europe

  * U.S. confident Nato's strategy document will be "strong" on China, official says, article with imageWorld · June 26, 2022 · 12:34 PM UTC

The U.S. is confident that NATO's new strategy document will include "strong"
language on China, a White House official said on Sunday, adding that
negotiations on how to refer to Beijing were still underway.

  * Video

EuropeRussia's defense minister visits troops involved in Ukraine operation,
article with video2:57 PM UTC

  * WorldG7 leaders to discuss Iran nuclear talks revival, French official says, article with image1:15 PM UTC

  * EuropeEurope must give developing nations alternative to Chinese funds, von der Leyen says, article with image4:12 PM UTC

  * EuropeFrance backs Russian gold ban, wants G7 oil, gas price shield, article with image10:40 AM UTC

## Site Index

### Browse

  * World
  * Business
  * Legal
  * Markets
  * Breakingviews
  * Technology
  * Investigations
  * Lifestyle

### About Reuters

  * About Reuters
  * Careers
  * Reuters News Agency
  * Brand Attribution Guidelines
  * Reuters Leadership
  * Reuters Fact Check
  * Reuters Diversity Report

### Stay Informed

  * Download the App
  * Newsletters

## Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every
day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to
professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry
events and directly to consumers.

## Follow Us

  *   *   *   *   * 

## Thomson Reuters Products

  * Westlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor
expertise, and industry defining technology.

  * Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding
tax and compliance needs.

  * Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance
professionals.

## Refinitiv Products

  * Refinitiv Workspace

Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised
workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.

  * Refinitiv Data Catalogue

Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and
insights from worldwide sources and experts.

  * Refinitiv World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover
hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

  * Advertise With Us
  * Advertising Guidelines

  * Cookies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy
  * Digital Accessibility
  * Corrections
  * Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of
exchanges and delays.

© 2022 Reuters. All rights reserved

