BBC Homepage

  * Skip to content
  * Accessibility Help

  * Your account

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * More menu

More menu

Search BBC

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

Close menu

BBC News

Menu

  * Home
  * War in Ukraine
  * Coronavirus
  * Climate
  * Video
  * World
  * US & Canada
  * UK
  * Business
  * Tech
  * Science

More

  * Stories
  * Entertainment & Arts
  * Health
  * In Pictures
  * Reality Check
  * World News TV
  * Newsbeat
  * Long Reads

  * World
  * Africa
  * Asia
  * Australia
  * Europe
  * Latin America
  * Middle East

# French elections: Left unites to threaten Macron in parliamentary vote

 **By Lucy Williamson**  
BBC Paris correspondent

Published

    10 June

Share

close

Share page

Copy link

About sharing

Related Topics

  * French elections 2022

![Jean-Luc Mélenchon campaigning in
Essonne](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/A279/production/_125339514_melenchon.jpg)Image
source, Laurène Casseville/BBC

 **Having beaten the far right to retain the presidency in April, France's
leader Emmanuel Macron is facing an unexpected challenge from a former Marxist
on the far left.**

A new five-party alliance led by Jean-Luc Mélenchon is expected to make
sweeping gains in legislative elections here on Sunday, possibly even blocking
the government's majority in France's 577-seat National Assembly.

And, with the directness that he's known for, Mr Mélenchon, who leads the far-
left La France Insoumise (France Unbowed) party, has chosen a simple slogan
for his campaign posters: "Mélenchon: prime minister."

"The threat is clearly there. If we look at the polls, we are very close,"
government candidate Paul Midy told me, as he chatted to voters at a market in
Essonne, south of Paris.

Mr Midy is running as a candidate for President Macron's centrist alliance
Ensemble! (Together).

![Paul Midy, Ensemble! candidate, talking to a
voter](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/2048/cpsprodpb/117A9/production/_125339517_midy_campaigning2.jpg)Image
source, Laurène Casseville/BBC

Image caption,

Paul Midy says the priority is for President Macron to secure a majority

While purchasing power remains the core concern at a national level, voters
here in Essonne were very concerned about green issues, he told me, especially
the opening of a new science research institute next to fertile farmlands.

"We [host] Paris Saclay, one of the major innovation clusters in the world,
with thousands of researchers; it's our French Silicon Valley," Mr Midy
explained. "We need to develop it, but we also need to protect all the
farmlands around it."

Mr Mélenchon's alliance, known as NUPES (the New Ecological and Social Popular
Union), includes France's main green party, along with the Socialists, the
Communists, and France Insoumise.

  * Who is France's Mélenchon and what does he want?

The NUPES candidate running against Paul Midy in Essonne is Cédric Villani. He
turns up at the market on his bicycle, his basket stuffed with campaign
leaflets.

"There are some huge differences [within NUPES] that are well known,
especially on international policy," Mr Villani said. But we agree on the
ecology and solidarity programme, which is very strong. When there's a vote
about Europe, we'll be free to vote however we feel is best."

![Cédric Villani \(R\) switched from the president's party to the greens two
years
ago](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/165C9/production/_125339519_villani_campaigning.jpg)Image
source, Laurène Casseville/BBC

Image caption,

Cédric Villani (R) switched from the president's party to the greens two years
ago

I ask Mr Villani, a committed fan of the EU, whether he would want the
Eurosceptic, Nato-sceptic Mr Mélenchon as prime minister.

"Let's do things in the right order," he smiles. "The little bit of political
experience I have now has taught me there are some questions that need to be
postponed."

The campaign in Essonne is more awkward than most, because Mr Villani - who
came into politics with Mr Macron's party in 2017 - swapped political
allegiance two years ago to the greens.

"I'm spending this whole campaign explaining that I'm the candidate of Macron,
and [my opponent] is the candidate of Jean-Luc Mélenchon," Paul Midy told me.

"In France, if you want to be able to pass reform, you need to have a clear
majority in parliament. So this election is to get a clear majority for Mr
Macron."

A few weeks ago, analysts say, it was unthinkable that Mr Mélenchon's new
alliance would seriously threaten the government's majority.

Mr Macron and his allies currently have 345 seats in parliament - far more
than the 289 they need for a majority.

But the range of results expected by pollsters here has shifted, with the
lowest projections for Ensemble! dipping below that magic number of 289.

NUPES, some say, could tip 200. France Insoumise itself currently has fewer
than 20 MPs.

That's quite a turnaround for the political left in France, all but forgotten
in the battle between Mr Macron and the right.

"It's because all the parties on the left have united for the legislative
elections," political scientist Olivier Costa explained.

  * Baptism of fire for France's new government
  * French Left join forces to fight Macron 
  * New French PM urges girls to pursue their dreams

By contrast, he says, the far-right parties couldn't agree on joining forces,
which has left the National Rally party of Marine Le Pen isolated.

And, he says, some voters who backed President Macron in the presidential run-
off simply to block Ms Le Pen, now want to limit his power.

"There's a strong feeling that, OK, we elected Macron because it was him or
Marine Le Pen, but we're going to try and put him in a challenging situation,"
he said.

"I think Mélenchon has no chance of winning a majority, but what he can do is
make a pretty good score and then constrain Macron to be in a sort of
permanent negotiation."

It's enough of a threat that President Macron himself has suddenly appeared on
the campaign trail, in support of his MPs, after weeks of noted absence.

![French President Emmanuel Macron delivers a speech in Clichy-sous-Bois,
Paris suburb, France, 08 June
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/7F51/production/_125339523_tv076602236.jpg)Image
source, EPA

Image caption,

Without a majority President Macron will struggle to push through his policies

After his first term was derailed by protests, Covid and the war in Ukraine,
Mr Macron is keen to get a good run at the second, and "permanent negotiation"
with parliament isn't part of the plan.

But some voters say more negotiation might be good for a president who's
widely seen as arrogant.

"It will slow them down a bit, but it won't stop them from succeeding,"
public-sector worker Charlotte said as she left the market in Essonne. "For
me, it's not a bad thing to have different parties."

Perhaps the possibility of real debate will encourage voters to turn up for
the election on Sunday - and for the run-off vote on 19 June. But for now,
predictions are that turnout will be lower than ever.

"French people know that the power lies in the Elysée," Prof Olivier Costa
said. "And Emmanuel Macron has a very centralised approach. So people have the
feeling that the National Assembly doesn't weigh very much in the decision-
making process."

It's all part of what he calls the "French madness" in politics. "It's just a
competition between a limited number of leaders with a giant ego."

So is France's parliamentary election just another round in the presidential
race?

Jean-Luc Mélenchon likes to say so. Remember his campaign literature,
emblazoned with the words "prime minister"?

Back in the market in Essonne, Paul Midy accepts that there's truth in it.
"It's a long road to power in France," he sighs.

## More on this story

  * Macron faces immediate challenges to power

    25 April

![French President Emmanuel
Macron](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/976/cpsprodpb/0CBA/production/_124285230_macronshirt.jpg)

## Related Topics

  * France
  * French elections 2022
  * Emmanuel Macron

## Top Stories

  * Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

Published

    1 hour ago

  * What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

Published

    4 hours ago

  * Chaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest. VideoChaotic scenes as Taser drawn at US abortion protest

Published

    6 hours ago

## Features

  * Helping families locate the missing in Ukraine war

![Ukrainian servicemen leave the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Ukraine, 20
May
2022](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/E416/production/_125609385_hi076160151.jpg)

  * Pots, trays, tubs - consumers confront their plastic footprint

![Jules Birkby's daughter was shocked by how much plastic they used in a
week](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/15EB5/production/_125618798_theplasticcount-
emmyisshocked.jpg)

  * G7 face battle for unity as cost of war mounts

![unexploded bomb in
kharkiv](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/8C8D/production/_125618953_mediaitem125618951.jpg)

  * The priceless Nigerian sculpture stuck with UK police

![The stolen Ife
bronze](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/C25B/production/_125555794_bp2_976_2.png)

  * Inside Ukraine's International Legion. VideoInside Ukraine's International Legion

![Ukrainian International Legion
Soldiers](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/27CF/production/_125619101_p0ch58xk.jpg)

  * The Indians choosing not to have children. VideoThe Indians choosing not to have children

![A growing number of Indian are deciding to never become parents. The BBC
spoke to a few to find out
why](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/14B34/production/_125588748_p0cgnfnd.jpg)

  * How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

![Sullivan
family](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/113F7/production/_125574607_sullivans.jpg)

  * Four things we've learned from Jan 6 hearings

![Liz Cheney speaks during the fifth hearing by the House Select Committee to
investigation the 6 January attack on the US
Capitol](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/A9EB/production/_125599434_d20ed912-f529-4d06-b300-87ebc8a3dc05.jpg)

  * The surprising reason more Americans are turning to psychedelic drugs

![Brain surrounded by psychedelic
colours](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/385/cpsprodpb/11E4A/production/_125609237_screenshot2022-06-24at15.45.08.png)

## Elsewhere on the BBC

  * Why top chefs are leaving Paris

"It started before Covid, but it was discreet"

![Berry Tart and food](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/47E7/production/_125570481_parischefsleaving.jpg)

  * The films bringing sex work to life

Has cinema perpetuated damaging stereotypes?

![people on bed](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/15957/production/_125570488_sexworkfilms.jpg)

  * Has human progress peaked?

A growing and influential intellectual movement aims to understand why human
progress happens – and how to speed it up

![night photographer](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/live-
experience/cps/480/cpsprodpb/D4EB/production/_125570545_humanprogresspeaked.jpg)

## Most Read

  1. 1Prince Charles 'accepted a suitcase with 1m euros'

  2. 2Missiles strike Ukraine as G7 rallies over Russia

  3. 3What the US abortion decision means for the mid-terms

  4. 4South African police investigate nightclub deaths

  5. 5US firms pledge to pay abortion travel expenses

  6. 6G7 leaders meet amid political pressures at home

  7. 7U2 singer Bono discovered he has a half-brother

  8. 8How a family of 14 is coping with rising costs

  9. 9The world reacts to US abortion ruling

  10. 10Russia on brink of default as debt deadline looms

## BBC News Services

  * On your mobile
  * On smart speakers
  * Get news alerts
  * Contact BBC News

  * Home
  * News
  * Sport
  * Reel
  * Worklife
  * Travel
  * Future
  * Culture
  * Music
  * TV
  * Weather
  * Sounds

  * Terms of Use
  * About the BBC
  * Privacy Policy
  * Cookies
  * Accessibility Help
  * Parental Guidance
  * Contact the BBC
  * Get Personalised Newsletters
  * Why you can trust the BBC
  * Advertise with us
  * AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info

© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read
about our approach to external linking.

![](https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/p?c1=2&c2=17986528&cs_ucfr=0&cv=2.0&cj=1)

